The fulcrum of this market has been big
tech.
>> We are still in the early stage [music]
of this AI investment or AI arms race.
>> We actually see going into 2026 a very
optimistic scenario playing out.
>> The air is coming out of the bubble
rather than the bubble bursting. To call
this a bubble, it's wrong.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
[music] Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
Good morning. Welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance. In the last month of the
year, futures dipping after the longest
string of monthly gains on the S&P 500
going back to 2021. Although ongoing
worries about the dominance of big tech,
kicking off the holiday shopping season
with some positive signals from the US
consumer despite confidence falling to a
seven-month low. And President Trump
moving closer to choosing a new Fed
chair. Kevin Hasset taking the poll
position. A wink wake nod nod. Kevin
Hasset talking about how the market
seems like it's happy. getting a sense
maybe we'll get an announcement soon,
>> right? Kevin Hassid over the weekend
talking about what we [music] saw in the
market response to what he called the
Bloomberg report a rumor was that the
market was happy as he described the
fact that the president is [music]
closer to making a new announcement that
there will be a new Fed chair come next
year. We heard from the president
overnight as he made [music] his way
from Palm Beach to back to Washington DC
was he said, "I know who I'm going to
pick and we'll be announcing [music]
it." This is what he told me though two
weeks ago when I was in the Oval Office
with him. Yeah, I have an idea who I'm
going to pick. I know who I'm going to
pick already. The interviews [music] are
going to be starting soon. The Treasury
Secretary says we will likely get a name
before Christmas. [music] So once we get
that interest rate decision, potentially
we'll get a name or if we really want to
see fireworks, potentially we get a pick
before the Fed meets. Regardless, the
market is taking this as [music] a
likely December rate cut. And that's
what matters. Dovish Fed. And that's the
reason why people seem to be cheering.
That's why people were cheering last
week. [music] That's why you saw a risk
reversal back to a positive after a
pretty dismal uh first couple of weeks.
The interesting thing is this would be
jobs uh jobs week. We would be getting
[music] jobs data come Friday. We're
not. So we don't have a sense of whether
the uh underlying economy actually
warrants a bad rate cut that everyone's
baking in for next month. A day of
dependent Fed this [music] puts them in
a really difficult position. But when
you hear from Fed officials especially
we heard from John Williams and that is
really talking about this trend [music]
and this idea and there does seem to be
now at some point a bias towards the
labor market you immediately saw the
market really start to shift. What's
going to be more challenging, what a lot
of analysts are talking about is this
division on the Fed on where neutral
[music] is. So, what sets them up for
2026? Do we get more cuts or do some
individuals think [music] we are at
neutral and they should just stay the
course and leave interest rates on hold?
At the same time, the president's going
to potentially be putting [music]
someone in that wants to see further
reductions.
>> And it really is about vibes and
feelings because right now it's not
about hard data. In the week ahead, we
should be getting non-farm payrolls. We
should be getting Joel's data. We should
be getting all of this other anecdotal
senses of what exactly is going on with
the consumer. Instead, we're getting ISM
manufacturing. [music]
Uh later today at 10:00 a.m., which
could give you some sense later this
week, we do get ISM services as well as
ADP payrolls report. Uh Thursday, we get
initial jobless claims, plus challenger
jobs cut. That actually might end up
being something that [music] is market
moving. And Friday, we get September
data regarding core PCE spending and
income. Nonetheless, people really
looking at what's going [music] to
happen with Black Friday. Right now in
markets, you can see a little bit of a
dip after the seventh straight monthly
gain of the S&P 500. [music]
Right now, S&P futures lower by about
6/10en of a percent. A bigger on the
performance from the NASDAQ [music] with
those ongoing AI related fears. 10-year
yields just up incrementally higher. A
focus right now on Japan and a Bank of
Japan [music] rate hike. 10-year yields
4.04%.
Coming up this hour, Alistister Pinder
of HSBC with stocks sitting near
all-time highs as Robert Kixburg of
Gramcy Funds as the US ramps up pressure
on Venezuela and Sonia Martin of DC Bank
as President Trump says he has made his
pick for the next Fed chair. We begin
this hour with stocks lower as investors
wait a crucial week of data. Alistar
Pinder and the team at HSBC setting
their 2026 S&P 500 target at 7500,
writing, "AI has carried equity markets
throughout 2025. We believe it will
drive both equities and credit in 2026
though in different ways. Alistar joins
us now after a refreshing Thanksgiving
break that all of us cannot relate to.
But I am curious from your perspective
going forward. How come you think the AI
is going to resurrect that kind of lead
hire given some of the concerns that
we've seen recently?
>> Well, I think if you look at the
performance of the market this year,
it's been driven by the AI
infrastructure and um you know the AI
enablers uh story. you know, going into
next year, I think the big narrative for
markets is how companies are going to
adopt AI and that's going to drive
earnings. And so, there's loads of data
showing this. You know, some of the ones
that we like to look is the ramp AI
index shows 45% of companies uh are
adopting AI. One of the things that
we've been doing a lot on is well, what
is the actual tangible cost savings from
this? And so far, we think that there
can be basically 1% of uh cost cuts
going into next year. That's $130
billion. We think that can basically be
saved going into 2026. And there's this
amazing narrative going on right now in
the market where revenues increasing.
You got 9% growth. Actually, at the same
time, companies are cutting back on
labor. And so, if you look at the warn
data from the S&P 500 companies, it's
been shooting higher. But this is
nothing absolutely nothing to do with
them warning about the economy.
Actually, their corporate guidance
earnings divisions are, you know, close
to all-time highs. So, this almost for
me feels like a Goldilock scenario going
with the, you know, the AI narrative
going into next year. And my final
thing, if you have a little bit of labor
weakness as a result of AI, then going
back to your conversation about the Fed,
might that not keep the Fed a little bit
more dovish and that I think again can
help support the equity market rally
going into next year.
>> Goldilocks for the equity market, maybe
not the economy, which is a sort of key
distinction here. I do wonder, so this
is an argument for AI being dominant,
but that means the rest of the 493
outperforming, playing catch-up with the
Magnificent 7. Is that correct?
>> Correct. And again, one of the biggest
things that we've seen over the last
couple of years is that actually the
performance of the Mag 7 has not been
driven by valuations. It's all been by
earnings growth. And now what we're
seeing is earnings growth going from
roughly 30 to 40% yearonear into next
year probably being in high teens and
the rest of the market actually catching
up with that. And so this will be one of
the first years really since 2021 where
earnings growth between the Mag 7 and
the 493 are going to be somewhat equal.
And so I do see much more scope for you
know outperformance for the rest of the
market.
>> What for you will be the telltale sign
that actually adoption is underway
significantly in some of these
industries?
>> Well, I mean to be honest I already
think that we we see that. I mean if you
look at the data from some of the
consumer stocks that are basically
saying that we're using AI uh and
becoming much more productive in terms
of you know targeted ad sales and
whatever else. a huge number of
companies on their earnings calls are
discussing about how uh they're adopting
AI and actually again replacing that you
know labor or freezing labor as a result
of the higher productivity to me you
know we're already seeing it from
companies and the earning scores now you
talk about the equity market and the
economy what's very interesting is that
for the broad economy I don't think we
are seeing much productivity increase
it's really the large cap stocks and so
again like where does this AI
productivity come from it comes from
companies with huge amount of employees
that need to reduce it. If you're a
small company and you have 10 employees,
you're not going to really replace that
with AI. But if you got hundreds of
thousands of employees, actually, that's
where the cost benefit comes from.
>> You mentioned that that means maybe the
Fed then has to be dovish. But how could
a Fed interest rate cut cycle solve the
problem of AI
>> in terms of I mean I mean it doesn't
really solve the problem of AI at all.
[clears throat]
>> AI labor layoff.
>> Yeah, exactly. I mean it doesn't solve
this really, but it does reduce some of
the pressure on the labor uh market in
the near term, right? in terms of
reducing uh you know credit costs uh
reducing interest rates reducing some of
that burden on the the low-inccome
consumer and of course it is the
low-inccome consumer particular which
has been hardest hit by higher interest
rates given that they have more of their
debt in sort of floating rate debt
products like you know uh auto loans,
credit card loans rather than mortgages.
>> At this point it sounds like everyone's
banking on stimulus coming from the
fiscal side with potentially $2,000
checks or whatever else comes from the
tax refunds that we get in January.
We're expecting monetary stimulus when
it comes to Fed rate cuts, possible use
of the balance sheet. I just wonder if
this makes the US a less attractive
place on a sort of currency adjusted
basis for equities based on some of what
we're expecting to see. Totally on the
fiscal side.
>> Totally. I totally agree with that. And
actually, you know, one thing that I
think the market is missing a little bit
is it's not just stimulus that's coming
out from the US. Actually, you know,
China's just done a $ 1.4 trillion debt
swap. Uh Germany is coming in with $150
billion uh dollar stimulus next year.
Japan is teeing up $110 billion uh
stimulus next year. So actually what you
could see is that we get a huge global
wave of stimulus as you mentioned
actually the dollar starts to weaken and
the rest of the world starts to look
very attractive particularly because
valuations are at a 30 40% discount even
on the AI players you go to Asia you got
an AI discount there in Europe less so
but you still got places like Germany
which are seeing 14 15% earnings growth
and a valuation of 14- 15 times earnings
to me that seems quite attractive at
this point
>> so what equity markets do you like
Germany and Asia plus the United States
>> so We are overweight emerging markets
that includes Asia, LATAM, um I mean
that's all due to you know huge
decreases in in in cost of equity and
interest rate cuts but yeah Europe
Germany uh also stand out as our key
overweights and the US we're neutral on
and a part of that really is because if
I was going to get my AI kind of tech
play I'd actually rather do it with
emerging markets rather than the US at
this point again just from that
valuation perspective. Lisa mentioned
what's coming out of Washington in terms
of the fiscal stimulus. How are you
thinking about the potential tariff
impact whether it's the United States or
globally because we are still waiting on
the Supreme Court decision on the
president's signature tariff policy.
>> Yeah, I mean I think that is one of the
aspects that worries me the most going
into next year. So I mean you know the
three risks obviously AI bubble and you
know uh the Fed being more hawkish and
we kind of discussed that. The tariff
one I just don't think we've discussed
it enough. I think everyone thinks that
we've moved past tariffs and that's
never going to come to bite. I do think
there's been a lot of stocking up on
inventory and I do think we're starting
to see incremental signs of inflation
actually come through. We haven't had a
lot of inflation data and I sus I
suspect actually when we get it what
we're going to find is that actually
particularly on the good side there's
been a lot of pushing up there and so I
do wonder whether that starts to eat a
little bit into margins. But this is
where I could say AI comes to save the
day because on the one hand if you're a
company and you're facing higher costs
actually I think the big incentive for
as a company right now is okay why don't
we adopt AI and try and and reduce cost
savings that way and so much like co was
like one of the biggest forces of
innovation adoption for companies. I
actually wonder whether Tarus is one of
the biggest forces of adoption of AI
this year and next year because it
forces people to become more productive.
>> Does it make you nervous if nobody else
is bearish? Um I mean I talk to people
that are bearish. I think you know I
think you know I think you can speak to
>> are they enacting their bearish beliefs
or they just sort of feel negative.
>> I think there's two things. I think the
sell side you know including myself is
quite bullish. I think when I speak to
investors they're clearly a little bit
worried about this. I think there's
there's definitely you know every uh
room that I walk into it is are we in an
AI bubble? You know that is the number
one concern. And then again actually
this conversation about uh the impact on
labor and you know will the consumer
roll over more aggressively next year is
probably the the second biggest concern
for people's for investors at this
point. So you know do I think everyone's
bullish? No. I think there's actually a
huge amount of money on the sidelines.
And one of the things I think is again
really important here is that there's
$3.5 trillion of cash sitting in time
deposits. Just retail investors cash
$3.5 trillion. And as the Fed cuts
interest rates, that's going to unlock a
lot of that cash which can go into the
equity market still. So I still think
there's a lot more buying opportunities
uh and money to go into the equity
markets here.
>> Alistister Pinder, thank you so much for
being with us. That's Alistister Pinder
of HSBC. We had been uh tracking Airbus
earlier this morning on news over the
weekend that uh a majority of its A320
jets received modification. Reuters
currently saying the Airbus faces new
quality problems on dozens of A320 jets
and you are seeing Emory a real shift
lower in Airbus futures down 7.3% as
people wonder what else are we missing.
>> Well yeah exactly we had earlier this
morning that the vast majority of these
jets were impacted by a software glitch.
Now Reuters is saying there's a new
quality problem on dozens of them. This
is going to weigh on the stock like we
saw with Boeing. This takes a lot of
time to unpack exactly what's going on
and potentially as we've learned from
the past. More potentially more damaging
news is going to drop as we understand
what's happening with these jets.
>> Yeah, we'll follow this throughout the
morning for you. Right now, let's get
you an update on stories elsewhere. Here
is your Bloomberg brief with Vonnie
Quinn. Vonnie, good morning. Lisa, thank
you. President Donald Trump is
downplaying his social media posts that
called on airlines to consider
Venezuelan airspace closed. US forces
have been massing in the region as Trump
weighs military action that would go
beyond strikes on suspected drug boats.
Venezuela's government called Trump's
remarks hostile and demanded quote
unrestricted respect for its airspace.
[music]
President Donald Trump says he has
decided on his pick for the next Federal
Reserve chair and he's made it clear he
expects his nominee to cut interest
rates. sources telling us here at
Bloomberg, Trump's chief economic
adviser Kevin Hasset is seen as the
likely choice to succeed current Fed
chief Jerome Powell. This all of course
according to people familiar with the
matter.
US consumers [music]
staying strong. Mastercard says Black
Friday sales rose compared to a year
ago. Sales excluding autos increased
more than 4% on the day after
Thanksgiving. Online sales dropped
compared to last year with many shoppers
saying deals were more muted compared
with last year. And that is your
Bloomberg brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much, Vonnie. Up next,
escalating [music] tensions with
Venezuela.
>> We consider Venezuela to be not a very
friendly country. They sent millions of
people really and probably uh a number
in excess of that.
>> Does your warning mean that an air
strike is eminent or should we not read
it that way?
>> Don't read anything into it. Robert
Cunningsburgger of Grammar Funds
Management joining us next to make the
sense of this from an investor's
standpoint. This [music] is Bloomberg
Surveillance. Good morning.
Kicking off [music] the official start
to the year with a little bit of
softness. Although we did grind higher
for a seventh straight month in the S&P
500. Right now dipping about 6/10 of a
percent on the S&P. NASDAQ
underperforming yet again after seeing a
break in a seven-month rising streak.
Last month falling just by a bit. The
MAG 7 still leading the declines down by
7/10en of a percent. The Russell 2000
also lower. key to watch some of the
anecdotal data coming out this week
given the fact that we do not get
non-farm payrolls [music] on Friday. A
big bet though going on in the bond
space of a Fed put some sort of
reprieve. The idea of a Fed rate cut in
December has gone up to almost 85% from
some 25% just a few weeks ago. And right
now you are seeing a little bit of a
lift, but still contained yields pretty
much across the board. 30-year yields
though inflecting higher by about four
uh basis points, [music] 4.7%
rounded up. And the euro dollar
interesting a question of whether we are
seeing the reignition of dollar
weakness, euro strength on the
expectation for an easy policy for
monetary side as well as fiscal side
under surveillance this morning.
Geopolitics very much in focus
escalating tensions with Venezuela.
>> We consider Venezuela to be not a very
friendly country. They sent millions of
people really and probably uh a number
in excess of that. And uh a lot of those
people shouldn't be in our country from
jails, from gangs, from drug dealers,
from all of the people that came into
our country shouldn't have been in our
country causing a lot of problems.
>> Does your warning and drugs?
>> Does your warning mean that an air
strike is eminent or should we not read
it that way?
>> Don't read anything into it.
>> Here's the latest. President Trump
confirming he held a call with
Venezuelan President Nicholas Maduro as
questions mount over recent US air
strikes in the Caribbean. Joining us now
is Bloomberg's Mika SER for more. Mika,
I just want to start with what we
understand about what's going on and
where we stand with respect to potential
action from the US against Venezuela.
>> Absolutely. The Trump administration has
been extremely aggressive in his
posturing uh towards Venez Venezuela,
blaming it on a targeting their a
narcotics operation. Um, as you as we
just saw, the president has been very
vague on exactly what his plans are uh
in that region, but there's been a lot
of questions raised by members of
Capitol Hill, uh, Republican members as
well in terms of the legal actions that
the administration has taken and what
the next steps could prompt.
>> I do wonder, Mika, do we have a sense of
what that strike was over on offshore of
Venezuela? It was in the Caribbean. Big
questions now swirling in Congress about
the legality of it. What's the latest on
that front?
Yeah, there are a number of top
Republicans on Capitol Hill from the uh
the top Republican on the Senate uh
Armed Services Committee uh Roger Wicker
to um many prominent House Republicans
that have you know um asked about the
legality of the most recent strikes. But
this has been ongoing and these are
questions and the administration has
been very tight- lipped on this even in
their discussions with lawmakers uh and
those in their allies and have kept it
um you know very secretive in terms of
what exactly their plans are. Mika
Solner of Bloomberg. Thank you so much
for that. Robert Conixberger, founder of
Grammarcy Funds Management, a global
leader in emerging markets, writing, "It
is so hard to imagine that the art of
the deal leads to something short of
Maduro seating power. The path to
deescalation has become quite narrow."
Robert joins us now. Robert, thank you
so much for being with us. How are you
understanding this from an investment
standpoint about what US involvement
with Venezuela looks like now and what
it will look like, say, six months from
now?
>> Sure. Good morning. I think you need to
break it down into a couple pieces which
is one um is there going to be regime
change what's the motivation of regime
change then if there is regime change
what does that look like and then
ultimately what does you know what
what's the environment look like in
Venezuela post so from a where we stand
today I mean I believe you know we gy
believe the the motivation is less about
democracy and the stolen election from
2024 and and more about naroterrorism
and and quite frankly taking back the
Americas. You know, there was the Monroe
Doctrine, then there was the Trump,
pardon me, the the Roosevelt correlary,
and now we've got the Trump corollary.
So, this is bigger than just a stolen
election last year. Um, and I think the
way that this narrative is has played
out um will play well with with MAGA,
and I think that was always a concern. I
don't I don't think MAGA cares about
democracy in Venezuela. They do care
about 8 million Venezuelans who have
immigrated, a great deal that have come
to the US, security, what have you. So
then you know we believe this is more
than just regime change. We uh we
believe that that Trump and Rubio have
you know bigger uh bigger aspirations in
mind. This isn't just about you know a
show of force in the Caribbean and then
move on. But then to your question of
regime change and you know we grammar
spend a lot of time thinking about what
might regime change look like. You know,
there's capital R regime change, which I
think many would like to see, which is,
you know, the Maduro regime leave, the
Chavistas leave, and Machado and her
people come in. Capital R regime change.
That may be difficult. We may see
something more like smaller regime
change where it's some sort of governor
transition where the Chavistas and the
opposition um still collaborate towards
um new elections.
>> What do you think the timeline for all
of this is?
I mean it's so difficult to say but you
know as you saw in Eastern Europe when
when when the wall fell so to speak you
know regime change takes u longer than
you think it's going to take and then it
happens faster than you thought it would
happen. So you know there's a lot of
metal in the Caribbean right now. Um you
know would be surprised if we're in the
same position at the end of the first
quarter. Um you know be surprised to see
this this the status quo at Easter. Um,
but it's really hard to tell.
>> You talked about naroterrorism. You talk
about immigration for the Trump
administration. Is this also about China
and its encroaching uh on US what the US
would probably view as its sphere of
influence in South America at large.
>> Absolutely. I mean I think you know the
uh the evolution of globalizations back
towards regionalization and as you say
spheres of of influence and you know I
referred to the uh to the Monroe
Doctrine and that was about you know the
Americas for America if you will and
then the Roosevelt corary went further
and said you know we will intervene
militarily in Latin America to to
protect ourselves. So, I think what the
Trump administration uh is focused on is
just what you said, which is u getting
the Chinese and their influence out of
the Americas, getting the Russians and
their influence out of the Americas. Um,
and going back to a world of spheres of
influence where, you know, maybe we'll
be less focused on their region and more
focused on our region. And who knows
what the deal was in Alaska between
between Putin and President President
President Trump as it related to uh
Ukraine versus the Americas, but you
know, Russia's been pretty darn quiet.
China's been pretty darn quiet. Robert,
does this make you want to invest more
in Latin America or less?
>> In Latin America, I mean, I think as um
you know, there's a lot of different
opportunities in Latin America. I mean,
for us, we've been more focused on uh
private private credit rather than than
public credit, but I think um you know,
as many have started to realize, you
know, emerging markets isn't necessarily
more risky than than developed markets.
And we're seeing plenty of opportunities
within Latin America. I mean,
Venezuela's uh, you know, there's very
few ways to express interest in
Venezuela. I mean, most of it's through
the external debt at the moment, which
is, I think, up three times since the
bottom.
>> You said something there that I think a
lot of people are going to find
interesting, which is that you think
that emerging markets might not be more
risky than developed ones right now.
It's something people have been flirting
with. Are there dynamics in the
developing world that you're seeing take
place, take hold in places like the
United States or Europe that you find
concerning and that you think that
emerging markets in some ways is almost
a reprieve from?
>> Sure. I mean I I I grew up and we had
two worlds, you know, we had uh
developing markets and we had emerging
markets. I think today we have
developing markets, emerging markets and
submerging markets. Um, and it's the
developing markets that are moving right
to the to the submerging markets. And
the things that we saw in the 80s and
90s that concerned the world about
emerging markets, we're seeing about
developed markets. You know, quite
frankly, large debts, large deficits,
and and what have you. Um, you know, the
emerging markets never had the uh the
flexibility to um to not adjust, you
know, to to when COVID happened, what
have you. And their fiscal houses are
generally in order. Now, of course,
emerging markets is a really big label.
It's not a homogeneous asset class, nor
is developed markets, but uh we're quite
constructive on you.
>> Greg Mercy Funds Management founder
Robert Connixberger, thank you so much
for being with us as we do parse through
uh what's happening. I do wonder, Amay,
from your perspective, how much some of
the latest developing news around
Venezuela around that strike on the boat
offshore of that nation seems to be
potentially having ramifications in
Washington DC. Well, I think a lot of
senators want to get to the bottom of is
actually what was ordered by the defense
secretary after this really scathing
report from the Washington Post about
the strike and the substant secondary
strike that existed when it seemed like
two individuals were still alive and
they had a secondary strike. When it
comes to Venezuela, I recently caught up
with Mike Worth. He talked about being
there for the long term and rebuilding
that economy. When you hear from Robert,
it does seem like that's where [music]
they are as well and that this
administration certainly wants to see a
huge change in that country.
>> Yeah. Rebuilding potentially some of the
[music] Latin American potential allies
as well as rebuilding the infrastructure
around energy potentially for artificial
intelligence coming up. Ian Harnett of
Absolute Strategy Research on the
controversies facing investors in 2026.
This [music] is Bloomberg.
Coming after the seventh straight
monthly gain for the S&P 500 this
morning. [music] Taking a little heat
off that, we did see a monthly loss for
the NASDAQ for the first time going back
to March. 1.4% decline. We are seeing
that decline extended which really is
notable given the fact that people are
wondering whether this is a rotation or
whether this is a bubble that is
starting [music] to burst. And the
Russell 2000 futures down almost 1%.
with a real question on the consumer.
Yes, they're spending, but is it enough?
And is it enough for the bond space?
Two, tens, and 30s. [music] Is there a
question of how far the Fed can cut?
About how aggressive they will be as as
President Trump talks about choosing a
new Fed pick. We now have more than an
85% chance of a Fed rate cut come this
month. Right now, 3.5% on the 2-year,
just up about four basis points on the
30-year to 4.7%. [music] And you bleed
that into the currency space, what you
get is a weaker dollar as people expect
an easier Fed and potentially
deteriorating economic data. Euro at
least rising. Maybe it's just a reprieve
after a lot of negativity [music] around
Europe. 116 right now, 3 hours away from
the cash open. Here are your morning
movers with Yahira on it. [music]
Jihira. Hi Lisa. As you mentioned, we're
seeing a real riskoff mood to the market
this morning as we start the week and
it's showing up in Bitcoin [music]
falling as much as 6% earlier to 8 to
below $86,000.
Though we have recovered some of that
since then and most of that having to do
with the risk aversion we're seeing in
markets, but also China's central
[music] bank saying it plans to clamp
down on cryptocurrencies. And that is
hitting stocks like Coinbase, [music]
Micro Strategy down 4% and Bitmine down
6%. [music] Meanwhile, over in Europe,
we are seeing Airbus shares falling more
than 8% now in the pre-market. Honor
Reuters report that the plane maker has
run into quality issues with fuselage
panels on dozens [music] of A320 jets.
Remember, those are the same jets that
suffered a software glitch last week
that affected [music]
6,000 planes, though that has now been
fixed. But this is all coming as Airbus
races to meet tough delivery [music]
targets it's set for this year. And we
end on Canadian Solar. Those are moving
those shares are moving to the upside by
11% in the pre-market after it said it's
moving [music] control of its Chinese
factories to Canada in an effort to
avoid US tariffs and also keep it on the
good side of US regulators [music] as it
as it as it wants to continue selling
into the US market at a time when we
know Washington is clamping down on
clean energy imports from China an area
that of course China dominates. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Chihara on our radar
this morning, US and Ukrainian
negotiators [music]
saying they had a productive discussion
about a framework for a peace deal this
weekend down in Mara Lago. Secretary of
State Marco Rubio saying there's more
work to be done as special envoy Steve
Witoff heads to Russia today. Meanwhile,
US consumers demonstrating their
resilience as the holiday shopping
season kicks off. Black Friday sales
increasing over 4% from a year ago
despite economic concerns. Today is
Cyber Monday. Tomorrow is I don't know.
I don't know.
>> They're all blending [laughter]
together.
>> Ticket Tuesday.
>> So many people are buying their Black
Friday sales online. So I feel like
Black Friday, Cyber Monday is all
merging together. Which is why I find it
almost shocking that consumers spent a
record 11.8 billion online on Black
Friday online when basically you're
going to have the same deals potentially
on Monday. I just want all the emails to
stop. I feel like it is just spam
overload from the retailers. I
understand it's percentage off, but
okay.
>> I think they're all personalized or
Amarie, please come in. We know what you
like. Here's all of the listings.
>> Guess what? We're giving you another 24
hours. We see that in your cart. Okay, I
left the cart as it was. I'm not buying
it.
>> Well, but this to me actually does
highlight, is this a sign of strength or
is this a sign of weakness? We're
talking about this as a resilient
consumer. At the same time, who's
buying? What are they buying? How much
are they waiting to buy for the deals,
not necessarily buying earlier? And how
much is this on an inflationadjusted
basis? Not nearly as good as it looks.
And I know that it sounds like de Debbie
Downer, but this is kind of the the tea
leaves that people are looking for in
the absence of that holistic data that
we normally get out of the Bureau of
Labor Statistics.
>> Absolutely. I think you nailed it. This
isn't inflation adjusted. So it almost
feels like maybe it's flat from where we
were last year. And if you look at what
the Fed Beige Book talked about, it's
the lower-end consumer that is really
struggling. How much of this 11.8 eight
that's being spent is actually just from
the higherend cohorts we're going to go
out and spend anyway.
>> This has really uh been the underpinning
a lot of the change in tone that we've
been hearing around the US consumer and
the US economy which is the reason why
there is such a focus on the Federal
Reserve President Donald Trump
finalizing his choice supposedly for the
next Fed chair. All signs pointing to
his chief economic adviser Kevin Hasset
as a likely candidate to succeed Jerome
Powell which definitely has been fueling
the upside in markets. In markets,
optimism around AI showing signs of
slowing as concerns linger over
valuations and spending plans. Global
stocks falling in November for the first
time in eight months. Ian Harnett of
Absolute Strategy Research writing,
"America is in a race to dominate AI."
We see this as part of a broader
objective to boost productivity, keeping
the US as one of the world's richest
economies. Ian joins us now. And I think
that the most controversial question to
to you is, will it work? Is the US still
a bastion of returns and safety? Well, I
think you know what we're looking at is
an environment where President Trump is
determined to win the midterms. You
know, they're going to work whatever
they can do to avoid recession. I think,
you know, our our chief rates economist,
uh, Ebrai wrote a great piece about
Kevin Hasset. You know, looking at his
voting profile that potentially would
lead to to Fed rates being 75 basis
points lower than they might have been
otherwise.
>> This is the reason.
>> And so, you know, that that's one of the
things that we're starting from
definitely recovery rather than
recession. I think Lisa,
>> this is the reason why a lot of people
are expecting an easier monetary policy,
the reason why you're seeing that baked
into Fed funds futures as well as the
sort of optimistic tone for the
forgotten 493.
Do you think that that is the right way
of looking at this that either one way
or another the rest of the universe, the
equal weighted universe is going to
outperform?
>> Yeah, with that we're certainly
expecting that broadening out. We're
seeing that in some of the data. But the
real question that investors have to
answer for 2026 is this is a really
unusual balance. Really strong earnings
growth and expectations of rate cuts
that isn't going to survive probably the
whole of the year. So is it going to be
the growth in the earnings coming down
or is it going to be those rate
expectations starting to get raised even
with a more doubbish uh Fed chair should
we say? Well, you think the AI capex
endgame is coming and you you think
there are signs of a bubble burst?
>> Yes, absolutely. AI is a bubble, you
know, and so let's in terms of AI stocks
and that is going to be the problem. um
you know that that but why does it stop
and I think the thing that we see is
that the end of bubbles typically comes
because cash flows start to get strained
and that can be the cash flows of the
producers themselves and we're starting
to see that cash flow headroom coming
down our quant team have done some great
work and but where we're going to see
that is that it won't be capex that gets
cut first it'll actually be buybacks so
watch out for those but historically
when bubbles burst it tends to be that
the people buying the goods the
services, they run out of cash and
that's going to be the thing. So yeah,
AI can be a structural story, but are
those banks really cyclical rather than
structural?
>> Has it all been exacerbated by the fact
that we see a lot of circular financing
in this space?
>> This is a very classic bubble uh
experience. So we're seeing all the the
classic signs. We're getting exponential
share prices. The companies are using
those share prices to buy each other.
They're buying each other's goods.
They're doing it on vendor financing. Um
that circularity that you're talking
about. And then this capex blowout as
the cost of capital comes down for these
AI companies as everybody tries to crowd
into that space that accelerates the
buildout. But the trouble is the capex
goes on like that and if your sales just
start to tail off then the margins get
hit. That's when the challenge is going
to come for this market and that's when
we get more of a more of a shock
>> and this is coming at a moment where
Chachi PT is turning three. This is a
reason why a lot of people are wondering
is on its birthday. Happy birthday. Good
luck trying to survive for the next
three years. There's this question of
how much debt's been built out with data
centers tied to chat GPT to open AI
incurring hundred billion dollars of
debt in that period. At what point can
you see the overall market and US
economy continue to grind higher? If you
do have a busting of the AI bubble in a
significant way, I
>> I think at that point you'll be looking
for those interest rates to coming down.
But historically, when interest rates
come down because things go wrong,
that's bad news for equities. And that's
the point where you could start to see
the change and that's probably going to
be later in the year rather than earlier
in the year. The the actually the
biggest risk that we see for AI is that
energy component um that you know if you
America has has decided to use uh fossil
fuel hydrocarbon energy um and that's
going to be expensive um much more
expensive than renewables that China is
using. And and it's also there's
something called the food water energy
nexus. Um, if you want to have more
energy for AI, that's going to cost you
something in terms of water, which is
going to cost you something in food. Do
you want a faster search engine or do
you want to still get, you know, the
food on your plate? Those are the kind
of decisions that we're going to see um
starting to come to the four as we see
more of these issues raised. I think
Lisa,
>> I think it's a great [laughter] question
at this point. I think some people after
spending all the time on the phone might
choose their phones. But I am curious
though from your perspective going
forward, if this is the the landscape,
do you think that the chance of a
negative return on the S&P 500 or the
NASDAQ next year and a more negative
economic outlook in the United States
looks more likely because that seems to
be what you're describing.
>> I think when we go into 2027 then it
gets much more cloudy. You know, you
have to take that decision about lower
rates, sorry, higher rates or lower
earnings. Um
the big thing that we can see is that
short term these markets are being
driven by momentum. They're being driven
by liquidity. They're being driven by
algorithmic trading. Longer term, what
we know is that valuations matter. And
so we just published a report recently
about the lost decade for investors. If
you are really investing for the long
run, your long run earnings, equity
returns are probably about 3% over the
next decade. that means you're going to
get most of your your returns from
income not from growth here. Um and that
is going to be the biggest challenge for
investors. So recognize this is a
trading market, a momentum market and
you know AI is a big part of that
investing for the long run. That's a
difficult game. Let's go back to 2000.
It was the digital age. We're living
that digital age today. The big players
today are the big players that they were
there. Microsoft, Oracle, um, uh, Apple,
all of those companies lost between 65
and 97% of their value, their peak
value, and took between five and 13
years to regain that value.
Digital was the the structural story. AI
is a structural story, but there's the
right price to pay for everything in the
equity market.
>> Can we put two of your thoughts
together? that the Trump administration
is not gonna want to see a recession
before the midterm elections and this
idea that you think the AI story is
starting to fade. Yeah.
>> How does the Trump administration make
sure that the AI story does not fade
before the midterm elections given how
much of the equity market is propped up
by it?
>> So, I think you've got two two levers
that you can or a couple of levers that
they can that they can operate through.
First of all, you know, Secretary Besson
made it very clear that he's very very
keen to keep rates as low as they
possibly can. you know, so whether
that's the new Fed chair, whether it's
using stable coin to try and um inflate
demand for bills or red redistribute the
uh the demand for bills, um then that
will be one mechanism. What they have to
do is to reinflate assets across the
economy. The household sector needs to
take on leverage. The corporate sector
needs to be encouraged to take on
leverage. That's the way you get the
debt um back under control. So what does
that mean? They're going to be pumping
the housing market. They're going to be
trying to unlock there's $36 trillion
dollar of positive equity in houses that
can't be accessed at the current time.
Assumable mortgages, something like
that. Some kind of innovation,
privatization of Fanny and Freddy. Those
are the kind of things I think we'll see
up open up. The other thing is crypto.
You know, they will continue this
willingness to to lend against crypto to
to keep the economy going. Um and you
know uh however they they you know man
manage that uh then we'll we'll see.
Almost a slip of the tongue there.
[laughter]
>> Ian Hornet of Absolute [clears throat]
Strategy Research. Thank you so much.
Really wonderful to hear about what you
expect next year. It is crystal ball
season and we've been getting a lot of
them and there's a lot of positivity
because one way or another there will be
a fiscal bazooka or there will be a
monetary bazooka or potentially even
both and potentially even more so if we
have a Kevin Hasset as Fed chair. What's
interesting though, of course, you have
to remember it is a deliberative body
and because many people view him as
tethered to this administration and the
president, they might be more willing to
come out against him because they are
concerned that he is just purely
politically motivated.
>> Does it make the other potential members
uh more hawkish? Right now, let's get
you an update on stories elsewhere. Here
is your Bloomberg brief with Vonnie
Quinn. Vonnie,
>> Lisa, thank you. Now, the latest on the
investigation into the National Guard
shooting in Washington, DC. Homeland
Security Secretary Christy Gnome says
authorities believe the 29-year-old
suspect was radicalized in this [music]
country. He's facing a firstderee murder
charge in the death of the 20-year-old
West Virginia Guard member Sarah
Beckram.
The data center that supports the CME
Group derivatives exchange says it has
bolstered its backup cooling capacity
after overheating sparked a 10-hour
outage on Friday that royal world
markets. Cyrus 1 owns the facility about
50 miles from Chicago. It says stable
and secure operations have been restored
with additional redundancy now added to
the cooling systems.
A rally in the metals market to start
the month. Silver is trading at a record
as traders [music] place speculative
bets on the precious metal given ongoing
supply tightness and rising expectations
for a US interest rate cut. And copper
touching a record high on the LME on
fears the global [music] market is
heading for a supply crunch. And that is
your Blu-ray brief, Lisa.
>> Thank you so much, Bonnie. [music] Up
next, President Trump making his pick.
>> Are you any closer on that right now?
>> I know who I'm going to pick.
>> Oh, tell me Kevin Hass.
>> I'm telling you, we'll be announcing it.
Thank you very much, everybody.
>> So, now the [music] question is when
when are they going to be announcing it?
Sonia Martin of DC Bank joins us next
maybe to answer that question. Probably
not. This is Bloomberg [music]
Surveillance.
There was a question, will the S&P 500
managed to ek out a seventh straight
gain? It did on the last day. It was
down 4/10en of a percent and it climbed
above it for that seventh consecutive
gain going back for the first time since
[music] 2021. We're losing some of that
steam down 610 of a percent. Although
the underperformance continues to be in
the NASDAQ right now, you are seeing a
bit of euro strength, dollar weakness, a
real question about potential data that
isn't coming out just yet from the
United States. [music] Supposed to be
jobs Friday. It is not, but we do get
ISM manufacturing and services and ADP
payrolls which people are going to be
parsing through. [music]
You do see yields just marginally higher
up three basis point on the front end to
the mid end and back end. Tenyear yields
4.04%
under surveillance this morning.
President Trump making his pick.
>> A new venture. Are you any closer on
that right now?
>> I know who I'm going to pick. Yeah.
>> Tell me Kevin Hass.
>> I'm telling you, we'll be announcing it.
Thank you very much everybody.
>> Here's the latest. We're getting closer
to finding out who will replace Fed
Chair Jay Powell. Maybe sources telling
us here at Bloomberg that National
Economic Council Director Kevin Hassid
is the front runner. Joining us now is
Sonia Martin of DZ Bank. Sonia, thank
you so much for being with us. I'd love
your reaction to both the price action
in response to Kevin Hassid as a
potential Fed share as well as just more
broadly this understanding in US markets
of fate rate Fed rate cuts that seem
imminent.
>> Yes, I mean we've seen quite a lot of
volatility in rate expectations uh with
the view to the Fed. I mean the market
had initially priced in a lot of rate
cuts throughout the coming year. Then
there was a lot of pricing out when
during the shutdown I think people got
somewhat overly optimistic I think on
the prospects for the US and now they're
back they're back in the game uh with
more rate cuts and that's partially I
think because of some of the weaker data
we've had but also speculation mounting
that it's going to be Kevin Hesset who
will become the next Fed chair. Trump
hasn't said when he will announce
suspicions are he'll you know or
speculation is he'll announce before
Christmas. uh he'll probably use a
political opportune time to do so. But
Kevin H, it is of course considered to
be very close to Trump and therefore a
monetary policy dove and that is uh
exacerbating rate cut speculation and
that's what putting is putting some
pressure on the dollar right now.
>> So yeah, I wonder how much you expect
that to continue into 2026. The first
half of 2025 was marked by this belief
that there would be over stimulation, a
suppression of yields, a potential loss
of Fed independence, and this would lead
to a depreciation of the dollar. You saw
the gold trade really pick up. Second
half, completely different, flipped on
its head. Do you expect 2026 to mirror
what we've seen so far in 2025?
>> Well, maybe not as extreme. I think
we've sort of gotten used to Trump a bit
more and we're not as surprised maybe at
the way that he conducts policy as we
were earlier this year. So I think the
amplitudes of market move might be a
little bit smaller, but generally
speaking, I do expect the dollar to have
some downside next year. For one, I
think the US economy is not as strong as
people have recently come to believe.
And there is the Fed issue. And for me,
I cannot emphasize enough how important
it is to me what happens with Lisa Cook.
The Supreme Court will make a decision
on that early next year. And I think
it's really crucial to see what happens
there because if Lisa Cook does get
removed from the Fed board for uh you
know a crime potential crime that she
may or may not have committed 20 years
ago, I think that sets a a dangerous
precedent and I think the whole issue of
Fed independence is definitely going to
come back on the table next year. Yes.
>> Sonia, the market though is not acting
like there is an issue of Fed
independence. So, do you think that
actually whether or not it's Lisa Cook
leaving the the board or not, do you
think that is actually going to be such
an issue? Because the market seems to
shrug this off and moved right along.
>> Well, maybe especially because the
market is sort of shrugging it off. I
think it may be more of an issue. I
mean, we know what happens in these
situations. People kind of, you know,
gloss over these things, but then they
can make a ma a major comeback depending
on the news flow. And I do think that
issue will come back and resurface. I
mean, I'm not saying that we are
predicting that the Fed independence is
going to become seriously endangered,
but I think the whole issue will be a
source of volatility next year. Um, and
therefore will, you know, time and again
put pressure on the dollar. And I think
maybe the market right now is focusing
on other things and maybe not paying
quite as much attention to this
particular issue as it should. Well, if
the Trump administration decides to put
Kevin Hasset as the chair of the Federal
Reserve, will it embolden other members
to be more hawkish?
>> Yeah, I saw you I heard you mention this
earlier. It's an interesting take. I
think that, you know, the general market
view is often that if the Fed is led by
a very doubbish uh president, then
that's going to result in a generally
doubbish council, which I think we can
all hope that you're right and that's
not going to happen. That in and in fact
in a way we have seen this recently. we
have seen that Fed members have been I
think quite uh honest in their views on
the US and there's not been as doubbish
maybe uh as generally feared. So I think
there is ideally that scenario where in
Fed members will feel emboldened uh to
distance themselves from uh Kevin Hassid
if he does become chair. Um but it will
be a tricky time. There's a few new
people on this board. So it's going to
be a bit of a big shuffle and there'll
be a new dynamic.
>> It's really fun to play uh the parlor
game of the Fed. will keep playing it.
But Sonia, there's a larger story here,
which is more broadly around the world,
developed markets are incurring more
debt. They're seeing higher yields.
There's a real question of how much that
can really reverse next year based on
just the overall demographic of an aging
population and the debt load at play. Do
you see a broader depreciation,
devaluation of developed market
currencies more broadly? and maybe uh
not only with respect to gold uh
outperforming but potentially emerging
market currencies as well. Also doing
better than they have traditionally just
because of a dynamic that seems to be
flipped a bit on its head.
>> Well, we're actually when you look at
the emerging market currencies, we're
actually somewhat negative for the next
year. Uh a lot of these countries have
serious issues to contend with. Um and
obviously there is, you know, the debt
levels as you mentioned, but also
economic issues. Some of these countries
have been very hard hit by the whole
tariff situation. So I think in general
we're not that optimistic. Also I think
because the high level of uncertainty in
the market in general that we are going
to carry over into 2026 that is also
going to be a factor weighing on these
currencies. So I don't think there's
going to be a huge upside broadly
speaking. There'll be exceptions of
course but I think broadly speaking
we're looking at more downside for these
currencies.
>> So is this basically a loss of some
credibility in fiat currency right now
that you're seeing expressed through
gold that you will could see continue to
be expressed through gold in 2026? Yes,
absolutely. And I'm we looking at our
gold forecast is still quite optimistic.
We're looking for gold to continue to
rally into next year as demand from
central banks but also from retail
investors remain strong in this area of
uncertainty and as you said that also
reflects negatively on the riskier
riskier currencies uh in general. So I
think you know that's a riskoff
situation that's going to linger
throughout next year and to be honest
probably the next few years given that
Donald Trump is going to remain office
for a a while longer.
>> Sonia Martin of DZ Bank. Thank you so
much. And we are seeing gold uh getting
a lift. Bloomberg commodity index in
general has been absolutely flying so
far this year. It's right now at the
highest level going back to January of
2023. You have a lot of commodities. We
were talking about copper earlier seeing
its real boom. Gold has certainly been
leading and a real question here about
potential alos that are getting
involved. But it seems like the physical
world is getting its comeuppants and has
been getting its comeuppants frankly
since the pandemic
>> and silver as well. We're seeing silver
and copper, which actually are more
interesting sometimes than gold because
they have real life use cases, not just
a store of asset the way you see central
banks come out and buy gold, especially
if they're concerned about maybe US
sanctions or secondary sanctions from
the United States when it relates to to
Russia or China. So, yeah, commodities
on a tear. And when you think about the
AI story as we just had this this hour,
all that energy use is going to be
needed and commodities are going to be
needed for when it comes to the AI data
center rollout.
>> Yeah. And how does this really play into
inflation? We will be getting core PCE
talking about inflation on Friday.
Unfortunately, it will be from
September. So, I'm not sure how
forward-looking it is going to be.
Coming up next, we're going to be
speaking with Republican Senator Bill
Cassidy about cost of living concerns as
you do see the prices of commodities
pick up. [music] Mark Leman of Citizens
Commercial Bank on AI concerns. Claudio
Iroen Irrigian of Bank of America. And
Amanda Linham of BlackRock. [music]
You're watching Bloomberg Surveillance.
Good morning.
There's more reasons to be cautious than
bullish right now.
>> The consumer remains the bus driver.
>> The market's really telling you that
December we're not likely to see a cut.
>> Ultimately, the market's going to tell
the Fed what to do. The odds of that
recut have increased.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
[music] Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and Ann Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance to start off the month of
December, the 12th month of the year.
Futures lower with traders coming off
seven straight [music] months of gains
on the S&P 500. Tech continuing its
streak of underperformance this morning
after actually having a loss last month
for the first time going back to earlier
this m [music] March. Right now, all
eyes still squarely on the consumer as
Black Friday morphs into Cyber Monday
with early signs suggesting that
Americans are still spending [music]
despite waning sentiment. And President
Trump has made his decision regarding
his pick to be the next Fed chair and
he'll fill us in at some point. Emory,
has they been talking about this for a
while?
>> He's talking about this for months. They
have been talking about it for months.
Remember, I spoke to the Treasury
Secretary months ago and he said we'll
have a decision by the fall, an
announcement. [music] Now, it's
potentially we'll have a decision and
announcement before Christmas at the
very end of the year. You see the
president's face light up though every
single time he is asked [music] about
this. He loves to talk about monetary
policy and he loves to have this Game of
Thrones type atmosphere [music]
when it comes to picking who is going to
be the next Fed chair. Right now our
reporting is that in the poll position
is Kevin Hasset [music] who right now is
the president's chief economist. So,
lots of questions about actually how
much [music] of a political puppet this
individual might be or actually can he
at some point put some distance between
him and the [music] White House.
>> At the core of the Fed discussion really
is the consumer and spending power and
cost of living concerns that have
permeated every single poll and every
single uh sentiment survey that we have
seen heading out there. This week's
going to be interesting because we do
not get the non-farm payrolls report as
we normally would get on Friday. We do
however get ISM manufacturing later
today. We get ISM uh services on
Wednesday. We do of course also get some
earnings coming out. We get ADP payrolls
numbers as well as core PCE data on
Friday and income and spending although
that is from Thursday from uh September.
So a real question here heading out of
what this will really reveal right now
in markets. You are seeing a bit of a
dip [music] in the S&P and the NASDAQ as
people look ahead to potential
disappointments in the AI space [music]
and a real question of what else can
ignite some sort of risk on rally. You
are seeing yields marginally higher.
Yield curve steepening. A question there
of how much this is pricing in some sort
of easy monetary policy in the short
term. 4.04% on the 10-year and crude up
about 1.3% as [music] OPEC plus pauses
potentially some of its output
increases. Coming up this hour, we
really do want to get right to this.
Louisiana Senator Bill Cassidy has
consumers hit a record spend [music]
despite economic uncertainty. Mark Leman
of Citizens Commercial Bank with stocks
sliding into the final trading month of
the year. And Clauddio I goian of Bank
of America Securities as President Trump
[music] teases his Fed share pick. We
begin this hour with strong start to the
unofficial holiday shopping season even
as affordability concerns grow.
>> Online sales were up almost 10%, instore
sales were up 4%. It was really a
blockbuster uh weekend after
Thanksgiving. And so I think that the
folks who were saying, "Wow, maybe
people are going to be anxious about,
you know, going back and getting
presents for the kids and so on." Uh
they've been disproven this weekend. And
I think the reason is that people
incomes are up this year.
>> Shoppers spent billions on Black Friday
and could break Cyber Monday records
today. Louisiana Senator Bill Cassidy
joins us now for more. Senator Cassidy,
thank you so much for being here. Can
you square this idea of incredible
spending and the ongoing American
consumer continuing to uphold the
underlying economy and this real feeling
that cost of living is becoming
unsustainable?
>> Well, there's there's obviously segments
within our society and there's a group
of people who are still managing to do
well. There's another group of people
who are really hurting. Now, they may
have the money to go out and buy their
children a gift for Christmas. On the
other hand, there is a increasing cost
of insurance whether it's health,
property and casualty or flood insurance
as well as the increasing cost of
groceries. They [snorts] have extra
money but but up here but there's a lot
of folks down here who are hurting.
>> This is the reason why a lot of people
are expecting even though we are seeing
profits at companies continue to
increase. They're expecting the Fed to
cut rates to respond to that K-shaped
economy or the the mass of people who
really aren't feeling the gains. And I'm
just wondering how much you're prepared
to step in that you think that it's
government's job on the fiscal side to
really support that lower tier of
consumers that are really feeling the
pain.
>> I would argue that in the uh tax cut for
working families are the one big
beautiful bill. We attempted to do that.
We did it both by no tax on overtime, no
tax on tips for seniors, eliminating the
tax that most would pay on their social
security, but also putting in some some
pro business uh efforts that that would
encourage business to reshore to build
out their manufacturing. Lastly, I will
say there's a lot of money taking place
on infrastructure right now and that
infrastructure creates jobs. AI cannot
swing a hammer and so AI is not swinging
in a hammer. Those folks are being
employed. I would say that there is a
business strategy to help those folks
who who are in the kind of struggling
area of the economy.
>> Senator, there's one area when it comes
to affordability that actually might
become a lot more expensive next year if
Congress does not act, and that's the
enhanced premiums when it comes to the
Affordable Care Act. You have a hearing
this week regarding this. Do you think
we can get to a decision before the
deadline?
>> Yeah, I think we can. Uh I have a plan,
but it's one that other Republicans have
proposed some form of. And we take that
enhanced premium tax credit and instead
of giving it to insurance companies
where they take 20% for profit and
overhead, we give a 100% to the patient
in the form of a deposit within a health
savings account. This allows her not to
buy the more expensive silver plan, but
also get a cheaper plan called the
bronze plan. Now, did I say it's
cheaper? Uh, it's cheaper. And so, we're
helping her on her affordability. By the
way, the money in her health savings
account also gives her first dollar
coverage for her child's trip to the ER.
You know, I practiced for 20 years as a
doctor caring for the uninsured and the
poorly insured. I learned that if you
give power to the patient, you can lower
health care cost. So, we're giving power
to the patient, not profit to the
insurance company.
>> Will Democrats come on board with this
plan? It doesn't seem like they're
interested in this. They want at minimum
an extension for a year or two of the
extended premiums.
>> So, think about it. We are we would
actually be if you will in one sense
extending the ex the um enhanced premium
tax credit but instead of giving 100% to
insurance companies they take 20% for
profit and overhead we're giving 100% to
the patient. So you're getting an
extension
>> but the pool shrinks that money. So
those high shrink it does not shrink.
>> Well for the insurance are they going to
have to pay more? Are you going to have
to say you're on say the premium plan or
is your plan going to be even more
expensive because it's not being
subsidized by those on the lower end?
>> No. Again, going back to this, if you
got this amount of money and currently
under the current plan, you give 100% to
insurance companies and they take 20%
for overhead and profit. Instead, you
give 100% to patients in terms of
deposits within a health savings
account. First, you're lowering their
deductible. And because you have lowered
their deductible, they can take a
cheaper bronze plan. Now, normally you
don't because your deductible is higher.
We just lowered their deductible.
They're getting a cheaper bronze plan.
By the way, when you give power to the
patient, she gets the health care shees
to have that she knows she needs as
opposed to the health care the insurance
company permits her to have. A lot of
wins in here for the patient. Who would
not be for that? Whether you're a
Republican or a Democrat,
>> do you think that this is enough to
prevent the government from shutting
down shutting down again? uh in January
when this comes back up.
>> Absolutely. Why? Because we've actually
addressed affordability on the
exchanges. I would argue we also begin
to address the overall increase in
health care cost. When you give that
woman and women make all the decisions
in healthcare when you give her the
power of the purse and you say, "Listen,
if you go here, you save money. If you
go there, you don't." Everybody begins
to lower their cost to where they can
attract her business.
>> You know, you said something earlier
that I think is really important. You
said that businesses have a role in
creating jobs and creating a better
landscape for the lower cortiles and
deciles of the US economy and the US
earners. I just wonder what policies you
think need to be implemented to do that
because right now it doesn't seem to be
working.
>> Are you talking about in terms of
overall business?
>> Overall business. Yes.
>> Yeah. So I think that the tax policy
that we've put in and frankly with
President Trump's tariffs, there's an
incentive for people to begin to reshore
at certainly nearshore. And so when you
reshore, you're going to create jobs.
Now that doesn't happen like that. Think
how long you need to put together your
financing stack, but that's going to
happen. And so as it happens, we'll see
that kind of upswing in jobs for
construction, for service, all those
jobs that are related to that reshoring
of manufacturing activity. and that'll
cause a general boom. Uh so so that is a
long that is a sustainable strategy to
create prosperity for folks.
>> A lot of people are saying that the
reason why companies haven't created
more jobs is because they're using
artificial intelligence for efficiencies
and you're seeing that in terms of
Amazon coming out saying they're laying
people off because of some of the
efficiencies that they're getting from
algorithmic learning. I'm just wondering
from a legislation standpoint what you
think that the government's role is in
trying to make sure that people aren't
left behind in this transition given
that a lot of these new programs can
take on roles previously done by humans.
>> I'm a technical optimist. If you've got
something that's going to increase the
productivity of our nation will increase
tax revenue not by increasing rates but
by increasing the overall growth of the
economy. When you increase that overall
growth of the economy and you have more
money, we've got like trillions of
dollars of backlog in infrastructure.
Let's just focus once more there. If you
begin to invest that money in
infrastructure, AI does not swing a
hammer. You're going to create a lot of
jobs for folks who right now are
struggling to get better jobs. By the
way, we're also building out our oil and
gas industry, our energy industry. That
creates a heck of a lot of jobs. And so,
everybody looks at the negative. Oh,
we're going to downside. We need to look
at the positive. that will just shift
investment to a more productive area of
the economy. As we grow at the expense
of other nations or maybe we all grow
together, we'll create that employment.
>> Lisa started out this conversation
talking about affordability. Americans
are still struggling. You're also
looking at trying to address healthcare
affordability by actually having this
health savings account proposal. The
president talked about $2,000 tariff
checks. You're on the finance committee.
You're on the you lead the health health
committee. Do you think that that is a
good way to address affordability right
now? putting money directly into
consumers pockets.
>> So I'd like to see what the president's
going to propose. We do know that the
debt and deficit eventually takes money
out of our pockets. And so we absolutely
know that. So the question is, is it
better to pay down our nation's debt?
And as you pay down our nation's debt,
then it makes it easier to lower
interest rates for the Fed to lower
interest rates, which then lowers a
mortgage payment, which then maybe lower
other credit forms of credit. As you do
that, you make life more affordable that
way. The other thing you have to worry
about is if you give everybody a $2,000
check, does that bump up inflation and
therefore the Fed is inhibited on
lowering their rates. So, it can't be
taken in kind of isolation. It has to be
taken in context of everything we can do
to benefit that person sitting at home
struggling a little bit.
>> It sounds like you would be a no then on
the $2,000.
>> Sounds like I'm going to investigate so
that I know. [laughter]
>> Okay. when while you investigate,
there's also potentially going to be
another big uh Senate first a hearing
and then a vote when it comes to the
president's Fed pick. Right now, the
front runner is his council and economic
advisors chair, Kevin Hasset. Do you
think you would say yes to him being the
Fed chair?
>> Uh I've been impressed with Kevin. This
is his second time around serving in in
Trump's administration. Uh I think he's
done a good job. Of course, I reserve
judgment until we actually begin to look
at him as Fed chair. uh we are having
this problem of of inflation which just
is a little bit sticky and yet we want
to decrease rates. How you going to
navigate that? Uh but I'm certainly
predisposed to support him.
>> Are you worried about Fed independence?
>> Um Fed independence is critical. You
just have to have it. But I also think
that Kevin would step up and be as aware
of the importance of Fed independence as
anybody.
>> Louisiana Senator, thank you so much for
being with us. Louisiana Senator Bill
Cassidy here in the New York studio.
very much cost of living on uh the the
docket especially given how much healthc
care has dominated the conversation and
potentially Emory could be the reason
why the government could shut down yet
again
>> right there's this going to be the
debate it's happening all of December
the senator is going to be leading a
hearing on it what do you do in the
sense that you have these um enhanced
Obamacare credits that are going to be
ending and for Democrats this is really
important for them to have this fight
because this is what the entire
shutdown, longest shutdown history was
based around.
>> Yeah. Right now, uh, let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is your bloom brief with
Vonnie Quinn. Vonnie,
>> Lisa, thank you. Goldman Sachs is buying
Innovator Capital Management for $2
billion. The deal will combine the bank
with an issuer of a relatively new type
of ETF known as defined outcome funds
that seek to limit downside risk. Stay
[music] tuned to Bloomberg TV for an
exclusive interview with GSAM's co-head
of third party wealth, Byron Lake.
That's at 3 p.m. Eastern.
The man suspected of killing United
Healthcare CEO Brian Thompson will be
back [music] in court today for a
pre-trial hearing. Luigi Manion's
attorneys argue key evidence should be
tossed because it was obtained
illegally. Manion has pleaded not guilty
to nine state counts and four federal
charges.
Crypto is seeing a sharp riskoff start
to December. Bitcoin plunging more than
6% this [music] morning while Ethereum
dropped more than 7%. The deep sell-off
puts the entire crypto market on shaky
ground with tracer traders [music]
bracing for more moves lower. And that
is your Bloomberg brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much Vonnie. Up next, AI
keeping markets on edge.
>> We are expecting earnings to increase
double digits around 11%. The fulcrum of
this market has been big tech. You do
need tech to deliver.
>> Mark Leman of Citizens Commercial Bank
joining us next. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
A softer start to the last month of the
year. We are seeing both the S&P and
NASDAQ and Russell 2000 all falling
across the board. Deepening losses as
the session grows older. Futures down
7/10en of a percent on the S&P. Yields
just marginally higher with yield curve
steepening at the 10-year uh
denomination 4.04% 04% up about three
basis [music] points and crude higher
with OPEC plus potentially pausing some
of their output increases after a vote
over the weekend under surveillance this
morning AI keeping markets on edge
>> we are expecting earnings to increase
double digits around 11% the fulcrum of
this market has been big tech when we
dig into [music] it deeper and recognize
that the AI trade is far beyond the
hyperscalers and hyperscalers are in
actually pretty good shape what we think
is the earnings risk is limited but the
valuation risk is higher. So in a
scenario in which the AI narrative uh
shifts uh away then we can see a 10 to
15% correction in the equity market. You
do need tech to deliver.
>> Here's the latest. Equities under
pressure following the longest string of
monthly gains on the S&P going back to
2021. Still concerns about the AI
narrative are weighing on the indices
and have kept the NASDAQ 100
underperforming. Mark Leman of Citizens
Commercial Bank write remaining
optimistic writing quote AI investment
will be a powerful economic driver and
deflationary force for the foreseeable
future. We expect a strong start to the
new year and the market should continue
to broaden. Mark joins us now. Mark,
thank you so much for being with us and
happy post Thanksgiving. It seems like
the divide between San Francisco and New
York is one of vibes. where San
Francisco feels really good and positive
about AI, New York is feeling less so
increasingly as the weeks grind on on.
Can you just explain this division in
sentiment when it comes to what we're
seeing in Silicon Valley versus on Wall
Street?
>> Well, it's pretty early out here in San
Francisco, but I would agree with your
sentiment. Um, it's true that the AI
story is largely playing out around San
Francisco. uh 40% of the investment
dollars are here and it's part of the
resurrection of the economy and
resurrection of the city. Um all you got
to do is drive from SFO into the city
and see what the billboards say and
every single one of them is AI. Um you
could be a cynic and say boy that
reminds me a lot of 1999 and and you'd
be right. But also 1999 portended the
next 25 years of innovation and growth
of the NASDAQ and growth of technology.
And I see a remarkable parallel between
the two. It will be bumpy. Market cap's
going to move around a lot during those
periods, but it is going to be the story
of the next decade and beyond,
>> which is the reason why people are
celebrating ChachiBT's third birthday uh
which I believe occurred yesterday.
Happy birthday, Chach GBT. And it's
raised this question of are we already
seeing the dominance of some of the
initial first movers uh really Wayne and
whether you're seeing the likes of
Gemini take over? I mean, how much you
already seeing some of these cycles, the
winners and the losers shaking out in a
way that could potentially be pretty
disruptive, even if AI is the elixir
that so many people think it is.
>> Lisa, that's exactly the right point.
And we've seen it in the last month if
you saw what happened with Google and
other stocks in the last month, how
rapidly the ascent of market cap and
some of the losers, if you will, in even
small periods of time. And those moves
are so substantial and so uh historic um
that that's the story going forward uh
and you're going to have to be really
careful. But I think the theme is the
same theme going into the internet boom.
If you're not exposed, you're really
going to miss out. And this is the
revolution. I keep calling it the second
coming. I've said it on your show. Um
it's going to happen and it is
happening. The real question is how do
you play it as a investor and also what
is it the ramifications uh for society
and for for our employment and for our
economy and that's the second story and
I think you talked about a little of
that with the senator uh and you hit a
lot of the right points because it is
going to be a massive disruption and we
saw it in the have it have nots uh
technologically going into the internet
with education with job training with uh
economics this is going to be the same
ramifications and again we've seen these
micro bursts in stock both ways
When you look at the ramifications on
society, we had Ian Hartnett on the last
hour as well talking about he thinks the
capex's endgame is approaching when it
comes to AI. But when it comes to
society, is it about the inflationary
impulse, what that means for energy
prices, or actually is about concern
that AI might just take away jobs in the
labor market?
I
>> I think it's both. I mean, you're seeing
the president really focused on the
price of oil, right? It's breaking $60 a
barrel, uh, etc. And then you're seeing
some of the home heating bills and some
of the home electric bills skyrocket for
some parts of the uh country. Uh if you
see it for the job training, if you see
for other parts of uh employment, it's
going to have huge ramifications. I I
like the senator am an optimist. Um and
I said it uh 25 years ago when you had
the dawning of uh spreadsheets and
everything, we didn't not need
accountants anymore. Jobs changed. Jobs
are going to change. And the information
economy is obviously going to change a
lot of what those jobs are. We talked
five, six years ago about running out of
workers because everybody's going to
demographically shifted out and we're
not seeing enough young workers. So
these changes happen so rapidly and the
tonal changes are so big. But I do think
there's going to be government um I
wouldn't say intervention but they have
to pay a play a part in what this means
for education and what this means for
the future and and the cost of education
and all these things are so large but
technologies doesn't slow down. healthc
care innovation with AI is going to
drive cost lower and the kind of drug
discovery we've seen um will start to
accelerate. You're seeing it with some
of the buyouts that you're seeing by big
biotech happen with big pharma. Those
ramifications are happening real time.
Healthcare deflation is going to happen
as well. AI is deflationary. What it
does to the rest of the economy is much
more massive than that because again
technology is the biggest deflator we
have.
>> You are so bullish on AI. Is there
anything about what is going on that
gives you pause?
Circular financing, vendor financing,
any of this concern you?
>> I I I think, listen, I'm optimistic
because of the ramifications for it and
what it's going to mean for society. Do
I think every part of this is is is is
not um perfect. Of course, I don't. I
think there are bubbles being created
everywhere. There's investment dollars
being thrown at uh AI because the people
who are late are throwing dollars at it.
The market obviously is very optimistic
about it just like I was 25 years ago.
Did that uh mean that the market was
going to go straight up? Absolutely not.
And I can't predict what's going to
happen in the market. But I think the
techn technology revolution is here. You
have to be invested in it. You have to
be consistent. You have to pay a lot of
attention. But sitting around worrying
about what will go wrong, I think is
important. But I think it should not
change your investment horizon and sh
your investment patterns. But it might
change how you invest. I'm looking right
now at a chart that Deutsche Bank put
out showing the 300% gain in the
Magnificent 7 going back to the launch
of Chat GPT 3 years ago. We have seen
this incredible outperformance of a
select few number of names. We've seen
debt start to come into the picture. If
this is a deflationary kind of
phenomenon, at what point does the debt
become, I don't want to say toxic, but a
depreciating asset in a very real sense,
especially at a time of rapidly shifting
technology.
>> Lisa, it is such the right point and I
think what we see as a bank is where are
we putting our own investment dollars,
where we're putting our own capital,
what kind of companies we want to take
public. Uh it's a story that plays out
in every sector over time, which is
where do you want to spend your dollars?
Who are the right technology leaders?
Who are the right companies? Who are the
right leaders for those companies? And
and where do you get a little worried?
And there large go gains in those kind
of stocks get a lot of people worried.
But we've sat on this program a year
ago, three years ago, 5 years ago and
looked at that list and said, "Boy, are
these stocks overvalued?" In a lot of
respects, that would have been a big
mistake. But again, look what happened
over the last six, eight weeks. Look at
the moves in Nvidia and in Google and
look at the amount of market cap that
gets created and destroyed in a very
short time. If you're not paying
attention, that's a problem. And if
you're not invested, that's also a
problem.
>> Well, we're paying attention. Mark,
thank you so much for being with us and
thank you for waking up so early in San
Francisco. Mark Leman of Citizens
Commercial Bank. Always wonderful to get
your insights and I'm sure we will
again. And it really has been this
incredible divide between Silicon Valley
that sees the potential in Wall Street
that's getting increasingly worried not
about the potential of AI but about the
valuations.
>> But as Mark said, he's not looking at it
as an investor. He's looking at the
societal impacts and what AI is going to
mean technologically for our future. I
loved what he said about he thinks the
Trump administration is going to be
interventionist. Thinks they already
are. Look at Intel. Look at MP
materials, lithium Americas. Everything
has to do with the supply chain for AI
they want [music] to stake in.
>> Yeah. How are you interventionist? Is it
in the physical world or is it in some
of the job trading or the potential
other societal ramifications? Coming up,
we're going to be talking about the
ramifications for the Federal Reserve
with Cladio Irrigosian of Bank of
America securities. He has a revised Fed
rate cut call. Plus, Yhieran, their
morning movers, Mona shares falling
after a legal setback. This is Bloomberg
[music] surveillance.
Well, it's a slow start to the last
month of the year, but we will maybe get
a Santa Claus rally just yet. We did get
one heading into the end of November, at
least for the S&P 500, leading to the
seventh straight monthly gain for the
first time going [music] back to 2021
this morning. You're seeing losses
continue to mount in preession trading
down 7/10en of a percent on the S&P
futures. NASDAQ underperforming yet
again [music] down 9/10en of a percent
and the Russell 2000 doing poorly down a
percent even though a we don't get
non-farm payrolls and b there is more
than a 100% chance of a Fed rate cut
this month now priced into Fed funds
futures which you could see priced into
the bond space is it isn't necessarily
an allcle you are seeing yields
inflecting higher pretty much flat on
the 2-year but that yield curve
steepening [music]
has been mounting throughout the morning
30-year yields up 4/10en uh four basis
points and a real question here about
how much near-term rate cuts will
prevent longerterm rate cuts uh over the
2026 and 2027 periods. We'll get into
that discussion in just a moment. Two
hours away from the cash open. Here are
your morning movers with Yahira
Anandhara.
>> Hi Lisa. We start over in Europe with
Airbus. Shares are falling 8.6% [music]
in the pre-market on a Reuters report
that the plane maker has run into
quality issues with fuselage panels
[music] on several dozen of its A320
jets. This is coming as a company races
[music] to meet ambitious delivery
targets by the end of this year. And the
sell-off deepened after its A320 jets
suffered a software glitch just days ago
that affected about 6,000 A320 jets.
[music] And though that problem has now
mostly been fixed. Meanwhile, moving on
to crypto. We are seeing crypto linked
stocks falling this morning amid [music]
this riskoff tone that we're seeing in
markets. Just moments ago, I checked,
Bitcoin was down more than 5%, trading
just above $86,000.
And most of that has to do with [music]
the risk aversion we're seeing in
markets, but also China's central bank
saying that it plans to clamp down on
crypto. And we end [music] on Maderna.
Those shares are also falling 4.2% in
the pre-market on a major legal blow by
a judge who rejected most of its attempt
to avoid a patent lawsuit filed by
Northwestern University. The company now
faces [music] claims that it misused the
the school's technology in order to
develop its blockbuster CO 19 vaccine.
[music] This is coming as the
pharmaceutical company continues to
struggle amid the decline of its co
[music] business. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Yahara, on our radar
this morning, President Trump
downplaying concerns over escalations
with Venezuela, saying people shouldn't
read much into a post where he said the
country's airspace should be considered
closed. US forces continuing to amass in
the region. Can you explain what
happened over the weekend, Emory?
>> There's a widening campaign of course in
this administration when it comes to
Venezuela, when it comes to the
Caribbean. The president over the
weekend had this truth social telling
everyone to avoid the airspace. People
felt like there was going to be a
strike. Something happened imminently in
the country. Then the president on
Sunday said, "Don't read too much into
that post." So he's moving forward and
then taking a step back, which is why
everyone is in this precarious position
on where the administration stands right
now and what they want in terms of is it
regime change when it comes to
Venezuela? The president said he did
speak to Maduro, but we have no readout
or understanding what the two leaders
actually discussed. How much is this an
issue of trying to secure US influence
in Latin America? How much is this an
issue of immigration? How much is this
an issue of drugs? How can we understand
this in the broader discussion as we
were having earlier this morning of the
US seeking to plant its influence more
significantly in Latin America? Well,
>> this is the conversation we had the last
hour when it comes to narot terrorism
when it comes to immigration to United
States, but also when it comes from
influence from the likes of Russia and
China in Latin America and the United
States really trying to claw that back
into what they would assume is their own
sphere of influence. We haven't just
seen it in Venezuela. We've seen it in
other countries as well, particularly in
Argentina. Yeah, and this raises
questions about rare earth minerals and
others which we will continue to parse
through. Meanwhile, Airbus facing new
quality control issues. Reuters
reporting the plane maker discovered
problems with fuselage panels on several
dozen A320 jets. This after the company
was already repairing thousands of
aircraft following flight control
software issues. And President Trump
saying he has decided on his pick to
replace Fed chair J. Powell and he's
expecting his nominee to cut rates.
vent chair. Are you any closer on that
right now?
>> I know who I'm going to pick. Yeah.
>> Oh, tell me Kevin Hassid.
>> I'm not telling you.
>> Trump's chief economic adviser, Kevin
Hassid, is seen as the front runner. I
love the, "Ooh, tell me in the
background."
>> And then did you And then is it Kevin
Hass? And he just smiled and then he
said, "Okay, that's enough for now."
Because he didn't want to get drawn into
maybe adding more of what he thinks.
Whether or not he actually knows who it
is or not, he clearly has a front
runner's mind and is likely. Kevin
Hasset who said I think the market
reaction to the rumors of him was quite
positive. So didn't actually endorse
that he should be the next Fed chair but
sort of did in a backwards way. So we'll
bite we'll get drawn in by the Fed
discussion. Bank of America Security is
revising its Fed call and now expecting
another 25 basis point cut at next
week's meeting. Cladio Irrigosian of
Bank of America Securities is joining us
now for more. Cladio wonderful to have
you. Thank you so much. What solidified
it for you? the idea that next month
really was going to be a lock or this
month I suppose I should say for the fed
rate cut
>> I think there is a lot of focus on
December or not now the market priced uh
more than 100% probability of December
but to me the underlying question is uh
what the market expect the Fed to do
versus what the Fed should do and and
this is important coming into next year
because we're going to have a new
chairman uh probably with a mandate to
cut interest rates And when you take a
look at the economy, um financial
conditions are not tight. The economy is
doing well. We actually uh revise our
our forecast for next year to 2.4%
growth. Um and by the way, the the call
uh that we have for December um comes
with another two cuts in June and July.
So we're still sticking to 3 to 325 as a
terminal rate. uh which we already think
it's uh quite a commodorative in in in
in nature really. So to me the question
is okay if they cut two three four times
between now and mid next year what's
going to happen to the economy what's
going to happen to inflation
expectations because to be honest there
is zero chance that we're going to have
inflation core inflation core PC coming
close to the target before the end of
next year in fact with the exception of
China and Europe most of the central
banks in the world will have inflation
above their targets. So most of the
central banks are coming to the end of
the easing cycle.
>> Why then are we seeing inflation
expectations so contained in market
probabilities? Maybe not necessarily in
the University of Michigan sentiment
survey, but certainly uh in terms of
market pricing. Why have we not seen
markets sort of clamor to revive their
bond vigilante spirits?
>> I I think there are a combination of
things probably some some technical
issues also playing in the market. uh
markets focus a lot on on long-term
inflation expectations. Companies cannot
care less about 10-year inflation
expectations. They don't make decisions
based on that. They focus more on one
two years inflation expectations. And
and those numbers, as you said, as you
mentioned, they're not 2%. Not nearly
close to that. So I I think there is
still an underlying issue. Um let's see
what happened with ties. Let's see what
happened with the Supreme Court ruling
on AIPA. That can change things in the
short term. But um there is an
underlying issue with inflation that has
nothing to do with tariffs that
indicates that inflation will be
persistently above high and above the
target.
>> So if the Fed cuts in December, which as
you said it's more than 100% chance,
what happens for 2026? How do they
continuously cut interest rates if you
think inflation is going to be this
underlying problem?
>> Well, it's it's the debate between what
they are going to do and what they
should do. Um, let's not forget that
between the December meeting and the
January meeting, you're going to have
three employment numbers, two CPI
numbers, two unemployment rate numbers.
You're going to have a lot of
information. Um,
it wouldn't have be a bad idea to say,
listen, we we remain on hold in
December. There is a lot of data that we
need to to revise and if conditions are
guaranteed we going to cut again because
the last two cuts were insurance cuts
which means that the Fed didn't have
sufficient information to say this is
the right thing to do this is just in
case we are wrong uh another insurance
cut free insurance cuts I mean probably
too much
>> you think financial conditions aren't
tight right now
>> they are not
>> but aren't they tight for the lower end
consumer
>> not necessarily I mean the With
consumption there is a tricky thing. Um
this is what we call K-shaped
consumption and we have very good uh
credit card data at Bank of America and
you can see that uh consumption is
driven by middle and higher income
brackets. Uh lower income brackets is no
more than 15 20% of aggreate
consumptions is not that important.
That's where you're seeing some
delinquencies some issues but aggregate
consumption is fine. There is a uh the
linking between the labor market and
aggregate consumption. And the question
is 6 months from now are we going to see
much weaker consumption or much stronger
labor market because companies will
revise their hiding uh plans because uh
much lower uncertainty about tariffs
etc. And probably it's going to be the
second the labor market recovering uh to
support continue supporting consumption.
So if that is the case, you're going to
see 6 months from now a a very strong
economy that um might make you think
that these cuts were probably too much.
So three months from now, not even six,
three months from now, it's going to be
interesting before the new chairman of
the Fed probably want to know who's
going to be by then, but before the new
chairman of the Fed takes over the Fed,
uh where the economy is because the
first half of the year, you're going to
have a significant fiscal impulse. It's
an electoral year. probably Trump will
deescalate on trade tensions and focus
more on deregulation. Um so absent a
spike in inflation that tighten
financial conditions or a correction in
the stock market because of AIdriven
story, the economy will look strong.
>> The picture they're painting is really
interesting especially given that you're
head of global economics for Bank of
America because this isn't just a US
story. This really is a global story
with respect to huge uh debt loads in a
lot of developed markets, persistently
high inflation above that 2% target and
a feeling that uh politically people
cannot pull the strings and actually cut
those deficits. So how much are you
looking at maybe a good global growth
backdrop next year but potentially a
really bad backdrop for debt going into
a potential year where every economy has
an incentive to run their their society
hot.
>> Yeah. I mean 200 2025 was about five
themes. Trump policies and the
associated uncertainty, AI boom, uh the
idea that productivity will will boom uh
in the future, China where capacity
important because China is exporting
deflation and goes to the rest of the
world, fiscal deficits and um excess
global liquidity.
So what's going to change into 2026?
probably Trump is going to focus more on
the regulation and and and less on on
trade escalation but the rest of the
things will be relevant and excess
global liquidity I think it's key
because people focus on the labor market
making sorry the stock market making new
high here but stock markets are making
new highs everywhere in Japan in China
in Latin America you name it and
emerging markets are rallying the
spreads are making new tides every day
and gold is also rallying and private
credit is also rallying so whenever
everything is rallying across all asset
classes across all the regions has to be
something else has to be a common factor
and I think that common factor is excess
global liquidity. So any and those
imbalances are important because any
shock that um that hits those imbalances
and tighten global financial conditions
for instance higher inflation in the US
that force the Fed to review their
policies uh can contaminate the global
backdrop very quickly. Do you think the
US is still going to be the brightest
shirt in a dirty laundry bin or whatever
cliche you want to use?
>> Well, I mean fiscal problems are not the
US problem only, right? You have fiscal
problems in Japan, you have physical
problem in the UK. Uh actually there is
a convergence between develop and
emerging markets for the wrong reasons,
right? In in the sense that uh some of
the problems in develop are are similar
to the historical emerging market
problems in terms of that dynamics. Um
but if you take a look at growth
projections, we expect 1% growth for
Europe and two and a half% growth for
the US and less than 1% growth for
Japan. So within develop economies, the
US story seems to be the the brightest
story still there.
>> Clauddio, thank you so much for being
with us. Claudia Grojan, uh head of
global economics for Bank of America
Securities. Right now, let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere. Here is
your brief with Vonnie Quinn. Vonnie,
>> Lisa, thank you. Indonesia's National
Disaster Agency says heavy rain and
flooding has killed more than 300
people. Another 279 are listed as
missing, while more than 126,000 have
been displaced. Authorities are relying
on helicopters and light aircraft to
deliver aid with major roads and bridges
cut in some districts.
US special envoy Steve Witkoff heading
to Moscow as US and Ukrainian
negotiators say they had productive
discussions about a framework for a
[music] peace deal. The two sides
discussed potential parameters for a
ceasefire as they poured over a 19-point
proposal that emerged in Geneva last
week.
Disney's Zootopia 2 won the holiday
weekend box office. The movie brought in
$156 million at the US and Canadian box
office over the Thanksgiving weekend.
[music] The film achieves the highest
global opening for any animated picture
in Disney's history with a hall of $556
million worldwide. [music]
And that is your Bloomberg brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much Vonnie. Up next,
credit skepticism.
>> That skepticism is predicated on
concerns [music] about your AI, about
private credit, and obviously what's
going to happen with the Fed at their
December [music] meeting. We actually
see going into 2026 a very optimistic
scenario playing out. Amanda Lightam of
Black Rockck joins us next. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
A bit of softer tone to start uh the
last month of the year after a seventh
straight monthly gain for the S&P 500.
Down 7/10en of a percent now on the S&P
futures. [music]
You are seeing that decline continue to
grind further at session lows right now.
Now your tenure yields just up uh less
than two b less than three basis points
as people game out Fed strategy under
surveillance this morning. Credit
[music] skepticism
that skepticism is predicated on
concerns about your AI [music] about
private credit and obviously what's
going to happen with the Fed at their
December meeting. So those three things
are kind of weighing on investors minds.
[music]
But we actually see going into 2026 a
very optimistic scenario playing out.
>> Here's the latest. Private credit
concerns continuing to weigh on
investors even as losses from defaults
are staying low. Amanda Linham of Black
Rockck writing this. We believe the peak
in defaults in the public credit market
is behind us. Amanda joins us now.
Amanda, thank you so much for being with
us.
>> Thank you for having me.
>> This is the big question, right? How
much are people pricing to perfection
credit at a time when potentially
defaults are going to inflect upward?
There's been a lot of debt issuance in
the tech space and there's a feeling
that private credit has gotten a little
bit heady.
>> Okay. So I think there are a couple
things to note. One is we often get
asked in the corporate default market um
or corporate credit market when the peak
in defaults is actually going to arrive.
And what we point investors to is the
data that actually shows in the leverage
loan market for example defaults peaked
in November of 2024 at 7.7%. Which is
actually a fairly high number that's
using Moody's data issuer weighted
trailing 12 months. But the point is is
that we think the peak in trade policy
uncertainty is likely behind us. We
think the peak in growth concerns is
behind us and we think the peak in in
debt service costs headwinds from higher
interest rates is behind us. So when you
put those three things together coupled
with a good enough growth backdrop in
2026, it's hard for us to envision a new
peak in corporate credit defaults and
again keeping in mind that we've already
had kind of this flush in 2024 because
of the high borrowing cost. I think
coupled with that, our view for
corporate credit, both liquid and
private, is one of dispersion but not
widespread market disruption. And I
think that's really the key point to
keep in mind.
>> So, a positive outlook, a constructive
outlook, as long as you're careful and
you don't uh get some of the bad stuff.
A real question though about just the
spreads are pretty tight that you have
had a pretty loose market and there is a
feeling that maybe the appetite is
waning for some of the techreated debt
in a sense that maybe things have gotten
a little gone a little bit too far too
fast. It's a great point. The our view
on credit is that if you're owning
credit, you should be owning credit for
income and yield, not necessarily
because there's room for spreads to move
materially tighter and actually not
because we think intermediate or
long-end rates are going lower. Um, so
that's really the view. That's a
different way of thinking about credit
versus past regimes when you had kind of
a total return boost from tighter
spreads and lower rates. It's really
that income component. I would say to
your second point part of your question,
we're not really seeing on the ground
that appetite is waning to a large
degree in credit. In fact, a lot of
these episodes of widening and by the
way, we think episodic volatility is a
feature, not a bug of this market. But
those periods of episodic widening,
they're getting bought. And so we're
high yield spreads are actually back
below 275 using your Bloomberg index.
And so it's it's really to us, I think,
pretty evident that there is a fair
amount of capital on the sidelines. It's
income and yieldbased. There is demand.
And I think while spreads are tight, our
view is that the bar for a sustained
sell-off in credit spreads is also quite
high. To get that, you would really need
a severe deterioration in the growth
backdrop. And we're really not seeing
that, which goes back to this point of
there's a lot of dispersion. Um there
will be winners and losers. Not every
part of the credit market is keeping
pace with this tightening, but we don't
see an environment of widespread market
disruption.
>> When you look at the uncertainty though,
you named policy like tariffs and
certainty being one of them that you
feel like you are past. Does it bother
you that we still don't have a decision
from the Supreme Court on AIPA?
>> I think our view is that um if if if the
Supreme Court does strike down the AIPA
tariffs that the administration has been
pretty clear that they have other tools
in their toolkit such as sector specific
tariffs. So our view is basically that
tariffs in in this regime are likely to
remain in place in some form. The key
question is are corporates adapting to
that? And actually what we see in the
margin perspective is that actually
margins are holding in relatively well
and corporates have been forced to find
other ways to protect their bottom line.
Whether that's through operational
efficiencies that were originally
supposed to take place over a couple
years, maybe they're frontloaded,
changing product mix, eliminating some
SKs. So it's really a bet on the
management teams to figure this out.
Just like during the pandemic, uh the
the trend of corporate resilience was
actually much more pronounced than I
think many market participants feared.
There there's the fiscal side of this
and the administration side of this and
there's the monetary side of this and
we've been talking about the expected
rate cuts coming this month as well as
potentially next year and you said that
you do think that some of the peak rates
and peak uncertainty around that has
faded. At what point is that sort of a
necessary ingredient for your
constructive outlook on credit next
year?
>> Sure. So I think our view on the
monetary policy path from here is that
there's probably one or two more rate
cuts in the pipeline, but as we get
closer to neutral, and Cher Pal has said
we're probably already at the high end
of some estimates of neutral, um that
will become a more delicate balance
between their dual mandate. And so
really what we've been emphasizing is
the depth and the drivers of this rate
cutting cycle are far more important
than the timing of this. And if the if
the drivers of the rate cutting cycle
are driven by a significant
deterioration in the labor market,
that's not a great outcome for credit.
By contrast, if the drivers of the rate
cutting cycle are ongoing improvement in
inflation, then that's a more benign
outcome for credit. That said, it's hard
for us to see rates going below neutral.
We're expecting a normalization of
monetary policy, not a sharp easing. So,
I think that income play on credit
remains intact to a certain degree. It's
moderated, of course, from the peak as
rates have come down. But again, that's
a double-edged sword. The yield backdrop
for investors has moderated, but so too
there's been some relief in debt
servicing costs for corporate borrowers,
which is important.
>> You were talking about being selective,
and I do wonder, happy birthday,
ChachiBT, third birthday. We should just
touch on how much debt has been issued
from the tech giants. We have seen a
hundred billion dollars of debt tied to
uh open AI and data centers that do
provide services to them over the past
number of months. I just wonder does
that make you nervous? Does that make
you want to stay away from that debt as
a potential pothole in an otherwise
pretty bright backdrop?
>> So I think we view this as a bit of a
regime shift in terms of the leadership
of issuance at the sector level. As you
noted, technology issuance actually
months ago outpaced all other full years
on record in the USG market. So it's
been kind of a real paradigm shift in
the way that the market is absorbing
tech issuance. We think there's a lot
more room for this to play out.
Actually, if you just look at a very
modest estimate of increasing gross
leverage by half a turn for the MAG 7XT
Tesla, so excluding autos, there's
hundreds of billions of debt capacity
that could be added. So that's a large
amount of debt actually upwards of 400
billion and again a modest tweak and
leverage. We don't expect all of that to
be used immediately. We think more more
likely it will be gradual over time. But
I think the market is adapting to a
realization that tech will be a larger
contributor to issuance. But again, the
demand for this has been very robust.
And I think just like in sectors like
biotech where there are drug discoveries
that happen years after bonds mature,
it's it's almost a similar bet on the
management teams.
>> So you'd be patient. You'd be you'd be
buying.
>> I I think from our perspective, we think
that this is actually a a a regime shift
that has been met with a significant
amount of investor demand.
>> Amanda, awesome to see you. Thank you so
much for being here. Amanda Lightam of
Black Rockck uh here with us in New
York. We are talking about the debt
backdrop because that has been what's
gotten people nervous over the past
couple of weeks and months. This idea
that this is a new new segment of this
story which is it is including a little
bit more leverage.
>> Right. And to Amanda's point though the
appetite has been insatiable and you
mentioned it hundred billion dollars
these tech companies are tapping the
debt markets for and people are just
buying it up consistently. The appetite
has been robust and healthy. At the same
time, a lot of people are saying, "Where
are we actually going to see the shovels
in the ground, the data centers being
built?" Remains to be seen. Maybe 2026
story.
>> Well, 2026 will be a story of a question
around the debt, but also a question
around the evolution of AI. Coming up,
we'll talk about that with Seash of
Principal Asset Management, Leo Feller
of Numerator, Abigail Wad of UBS, and
Oxana Arnov of JP Morgan Asset
Management. You're watching Bloomberg
Surveillance. Good morning.
The fulcrum of this market has been big
tech.
>> We are still in the early stage of
[music] this AI investment or AI arms
race.
>> We actually see going into 2026 a very
optimistic scenario playing out.
>> The air is coming out of the bubble
rather than the bubble bursting. to call
this a bubble. It's wrong.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. Questions swirling about
the resilience of big tech on Chat GPT's
[music] third birthday with the
forgotten 493 continuing a streak of
outperformance. All eyes on who
President Trump has picked to be the
next Fed chair with growing bets of a
December rate cut bolstering last
month's risk on flavor and a focus on
the little bits of data we get this week
to determine whether the economy is
speeding up or slowing down. It was
supposed to be non-farm payrolls on
Friday. It is not. It is now ISM
manufacturing Monday. An Marie, it
doesn't feel like the first week of a
new month and by the way the last month
of the year. Where has this year gone
without the jobs report on Friday? But
if you were going to get it, all this
data we're getting, at least a lot of it
is going to [music] be really stale,
like the PCE on Friday. So, I'm looking
at actually what happened in terms of
real money being spent [music] when it
comes to Black Friday. Potentially,
we'll get a readout end of evening when
it comes to Cyber Monday. [music] And
even though you made a really good point
about hasn't been adjusted for
inflation, the consumer is still holding
up. We're talking about billions and
billions of of dollars [music] the
American consumers decided to go out or
online and spend on Friday. And that's
continuing into the week and potentially
into this week as well. This is the
reason why people are kind of at a
crossroads. You're seeing a more than
100% chance of a Fed rate cut being
priced into Fed funds futures right now
for the meeting that happens next week
from the Federal Reserve. You have this
idea that going forward they will have
space to continue cutting rates going
forward. At the same time that you've
got a resilient consumer and you have
Cladio
Bank of America saying he thinks that
inflation is going to remain
persistently higher and really test the
hands of a lot of central bankers. It
kind of raises this question, how data
dependent is this Federal Reserve with
in the absence of data and at a time of
changing personnel, right? But the
current Fed chair, [music] Jay Powell,
has made it clear, you can pretty much
look through the inflation prints
because we're not going to see the
potential [music] pass on from tariffs
all at once. You can look through all
the hot inflation prints. At the same
time, they have been concerned what's
going on in the labor market. All of
this is happening while we get a
changing of the guard. And the president
said yesterday on Air Force One flying
back to Washington DC that in his mind
he knows who he's going to pick and it
comes on the heels of our colleagues
reporting at Bloomberg that in [music]
the prime position is his chief
economist Kevin Hassid.
>> So will he cut rates? Will it be Kevin
Hassid? Will ISM manufacturing show
something? Here's what we've got coming
up for the day ahead. At 10 a.m.
Eastern, we do get that ISM
manufacturing watch out for new orders,
employment and prices paid. The
components are all going to have a
greater degree of importance. Trump is
going to be President Trump will be
signing bills. Jerome Powell will be
speaking tonight at 8:00 p.m. Eastern at
an event in Stanford. [music] It is of
course the quiet period for the Federal
Reserve. Uh but it is a memorial event
and we're going to be watching it as
well. And then uh of course we do have
Steve Wickoff heading to Russia. The
whole question the backdrop of Russia UK
US uh Ukraine [music] discussions. Right
now we are seeing bonds and stocks
continuing just to sell off a touch to
start the new month down 710 of a
percent in S&P futures. yield higher by
about two basis points [music] on the
10-year. Coming up this hour, Sema Shaw,
principal asset management with stocks
edging lower. Leo Feler of numerator
providing a consumer check-in as the
holiday shopping season rolls on and
Abigail Watt of UBS previewing a crucial
week potentially of economic data or
economic data light. We begin this hour
with stocks sliding to the kickoff the
final trading month of 2025. Sema Sha,
principal asset management, writing, AI
will remain the dominant force in the
year ahead, although mounting concerns
over a potential bubble may limit its
ability to propel equity markets and
household wealth. Sema joins us now.
Sema, thank you so much for being here.
Great to see you.
>> Great to be here.
>> So start with this conundrum. On one
hand, you can believe that AI is a
transformative technology that will have
a huge impact on the world as we know
it. But there still are questions about
valuations. How are you sort of parsing
that conundrum or as you call it paradox
in 2026?
>> Yeah, I think what we're seeing at least
this has really taken off over the last
two or three months is that narrative
has shifted. So there's still optimism
about what AI can potentially deliver in
the long term. But there are concerns
that we don't really know and how can we
um how can we continue to invest in such
a huge um huge amount in something that
we don't know exactly when it's going to
start deliver on interest on investment.
So we think it's still going to drive
markets. I think is still going to be
really key. But in terms of how much it
really propels equity markets, how
important it is for household wealth
that starts to diminish. Now that
doesn't need to be really a negative
story, but it does mean that we need to
be start thinking about where else we
going to be getting this growth from.
>> Yeah. Especially given the fact that a
big question is the state of the
consumer and the state of uh the rest of
the economy. A lot of people have been
coming on the show looking into their
crystal ball saying 2026 is going to be
the year of the rest of the 493. That
that's going to be the adoption. that's
going to be a real question of a
broadening out uh in a trade in
equities. Do you agree with that?
>> I think there is definitely room for the
other 493 to do fairly well. I mean,
we've seen signs of that already this
year. And when we're looking forward to
2026, we have a fairly constructive
macro outlook. It's not accelerating
growth. It's not incredibly strong
growth, but it's it's fairly mundane,
benign. Uh and in that kind of backdrop,
you can see other sectors performing
fairly well. We still like financials.
we think consumer discretionary you can
actually do pretty well in the in the
first quarter of the year. So there are
areas uh but I do think at the same time
it is very difficult to completely
separate AI from any of the narratives
out there uh particularly within the
macro space. I mean when we talk to
clients and we talk about inflation,
unemployment rates growth wherever you
talk now AI is a really key component of
it all.
>> Going into the end of the year what are
clients most nervous about?
>> They're still very worried about the AI
bubble. I mean that that's their key
concern. They want to make sure than the
Fed,
>> even more than the Fed actually. And
it's been an interesting shift in the
last couple of um weeks where there was
real concern about what the Fed was
going to do. Now there's the almost full
pricing of a rate cut in December. Uh
and this also this belief that the Fed
will continue to deliver as necessary.
So this feeling that policy makers are
still going to be there to prop up the
economy, prop up the market if
necessary. And I think that's a real
reassurance. You talked about the forces
that define 2025, inflationary
pressures, the policy uncertainty out of
Washington, some of that has been quite
acute and you said it's going to shape
the contours of 2026. When you look at
policy, what exactly do you think is
going to shape from 2025 into 2026? So I
think you know these are real anchors
for the economy. They always have been.
This year everything has been a little
bit more heightened with the change in
administration, the tariffs etc. Now for
2026 we think that tariffs is still a
story. It's just that companies know a
little bit more about the way that the
administration is behaving. I think
companies have decided are able to
adapt. So that's key. Inflation is also
still there lingering in the background.
Still worries about how companies are
going to going to pass on to consumers
what happens to their margins, but it's
less of a concern. So a lot of these
things are still there. They're shaping
the contours, but we have found that
companies uh and consumers are able to
think beyond that. Um so that
increasingly there are other narratives
that we need to be thinking of. So you
have a very global investor base that
you talk to, a very global client base
and I would love to understand if the
story of AI optimism with the backdrop
potentially of Warrior's evaluation is
that a US story or is that an
international story that kind of weighs
the same way in say Asia and say Europe.
>> So it's a theme that all investors
wherever you we're talking to are still
thinking about but thinking about it in
slightly different ways. So if you're in
Europe, the fact that there are concerns
about AI valuations does may mean that
Europe is a little bit more attractive.
Nobody's expecting it to be a complete
outperformer, but it stability and the
fact that it has less exposure to
technology within the main indices is a
key winning point. So that is a kind of
a focus of we want to diversify Europe
may be a point of stability and within
Asia a lot of people of course we
believe in the AI narrative still but
they're looking at valuations which are
a little bit more attractive than what
you're getting in the US. So actually
for for 2026
uh people believe in AI still there are
concerns but what it means is that they
are trying to shift their global
exposure to focusing a little bit more
on Europe focusing a little bit more in
Asia. You still have some exposure to to
the US of course but it's more of a
global diversification story than I
think it was at the beginning of 2025.
>> How much does this play out both in bond
markets and currencies because people
have been looking for an excuse or they
were at least earlier this year to
diversify away from the United States.
How much are they going to take this
opportunity to do so on a noncurrency
hedged basis? Meaning that there will be
that sort of dollar depreciation that a
lot of people were expecting to continue
into the second half of this year. It's
funny that doesn't seem to come up that
much in conversations at the moment. I
mean, when we're talking about the
dollar as well, uh the growing belief is
that look, the dollar has essentially
stabilized from here. Uh we're not going
to expect to see very significant
movements. So, that is a slightly
different uh I guess tone to the talks
that we were having about six months
ago. Um, so the focus again on Europe,
on Asia, on parts of emerging markets
still very very key without necessarily
having to worry about the currency
aspect.
>> We were talking to Claudia Goian of Bank
of America. It really stuck with me this
idea that you could see inflation pick
up around the world and accommodative
policies from developed markets around
the world because there isn't the
political will to push back against
this, which means inflation is going to
remain high and it just sounds like a
really bad backdrop for bonds. I mean,
at this point, why not just invest in
real assets in stocks and avoid the bond
market altogether, particularly from the
developed market, unless you're really
just looking to lock in and sort of uh
immunize any kind of schedule of
payments that you have.
>> Yeah, I think the we are expecting
inflation to be somewhat elevated,
right? So, still above central bank
targets, but it's not very volatile.
We're not expecting inflation to be
creeping higher or at least to moving
significantly higher over the coming
months. So, that's still a constructive
backdrop for bonds. Having said that
though, we do think that there are other
opportunities beyond the bond space. You
mentioned private markets, real estate,
uh infrastructure. Those are all really
interesting stories in this backdrop
where you have persistent inflation, but
it doesn't necessarily detract very very
significantly from bonds.
>> What else do you like? Are you still
interested in gold? It was a story of
2025. I think it persists in 2026.
>> I think that gold has had a lot of its
heyday. that doesn't mean that it's
going to come dropping back down again.
But so much of the reason that people
were excited about gold this year was
about political instability and I think
going into 2026
that concern is fading a little bit um
in terms of you know from a long-term
structural perspective worries about
what happens uh over the long term of
credibility of your institutions. I
don't think that's disappearing
entirely, but having faded a little bit
from the general narrative, it means
that the kind of the the shine on gold
is fading a little bit and so we start
to think about whether where the other
opportunities are.
>> You're visiting us from London. I'd love
to get your perspective on what's going
on in Europe right now because they seem
to be caught in the middle between what
is going on with China and the United
States.
>> Yeah, they are. And and I think you know
whereas once it was a a lot about which
uh which part of the world are we going
to lean into I think increasingly the
biggest concern is that as China
navigates this tariff environment with
the US they try to double down on where
can they can they export to Europe is
really sitting in the crosshairs of
that. Uh so you know in the last few
years we've seen all these concerns from
the US saying that China's industrial
policy has really hurt the US. It could
be that the narrative starts to shift
where for Europe it does become a real
concern. Um and so for Europe it becomes
increasingly important that governments
really do invest in the infrastructure.
What are the other industries that can
really do well to take over the baton
from the manufacturing sector. So I
think that is key uh especially from the
deflationary side. What is the ECB and
how are they going to be be responding
to some of these risks?
>> Sasha, thank you so much for being with
us and great to see you in person.
Simash of Principal Asset Management.
Right now let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning. Here is
a little brief with Vonnie Quinn. Vonnie
>> Lisa thank you. President Donald Trump
is downplaying his social media post
that called on airlines to consider
Venezuelan airspace closed. US forces
have been massing in the region as Trump
weighs military action that would go
beyond strikes on suspected drug [music]
boats. Venezuela's government called
Trump's remarks hostile and demanded
unrestricted respect for [music] its
airspace.
Eli Lilly is once again cutting the
prices of introductory doses for its
popular weight loss drug Zepbound.
Starting today, the lowest dose vial for
cash paying customers drops to $299 a
month. [music] It's the latest move in a
price war with Novo Nordisk, which is
making it significantly less expensive
for people to start on the medicines.
In sports, the Buffalo Bills dominated
the Pittsburgh Steelers 26 to7, while
the Seattle Seahawks pitched a shut out,
blanking the Vikings 26 to0. [music]
Elsewhere, the Texans held on, beating
the Colts as the Jaguars took down the
Titans to jump into first place of the
AFC South. Finally, [music] the Denver
Broncos narrowly escaped in overtime
against the Commanders, winning a Sunday
night thriller 27 to 26. And that is
your Bloomberg brief, Lisa.
>> Thank you so much, Vonnie. I never
thought I would see Anie get excited
about
>> Everyone knows I'm not said. You're
like, don't ask me to talk about this.
No, usually. [music] But my dad was so
excited yesterday and so is Muhammad
Alien because the Jets finally won. They
never win and they won yesterday. 27 to
24 [music] against the Atlanta Falcons.
And it wasn't in our brief. Okay. Well,
you just did. I bet I bet I bet that's a
Giants fan.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> Writing that brief. It's a conspiracy
theory. We'll dig into that. Up next,
this the morning calls plus Leo Filler
of Numerator with a consumer check-in as
the holiday shopping season rolls on.
That's coming up next. This [music] is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
Is it better to pay down our nation's
debt? And as you [music] pay down our
nation's debt, then it makes it easier
to lower interest rates for the Fed to
lower interest rates, [music] which then
lowers a mortgage payment, which then
maybe lower other credit forms of
credit. As you do that, you make life
more affordable that way. The other
thing you have to worry about is if you
give everybody a $2,000 check, does that
bump up inflation and therefore the Fed
is inhibited on lowering their rates?
>> That was Louisiana Senator Bill Cassidy
taking uh on the issue of affordability,
which is so dominated Washington DC.
[music] very much front and focus as we
get a smattering of data, not the
official stuff this week in terms of
non-farm payrolls, but still we do get
ISM manufacturing later today, ISM
services on Wednesday, and of course,
jobless claims on Thursday. Right now,
we are seeing those declines, but the
outperformance has been from the equal
weight. The [music] S&P futures down
less than everything else, which is
really interesting given the continued
underperformance of big tech, down 710
of a percent in the S&P futures. NASDAQ
futures down uh almost a full percentage
point, building on losses from last
month, even though we did see some
potential optimism springing at least
from the guests that we have here. Also,
uh the Russell 2000 down 1%. Time now
for the morning calls. First up,
Bernstein cutting Zscaler to market
perform with a $264 price target, saying
recent results have quote added
narrative issues. Uh feeding into
worries about increased competition,
those shares down 8/10en of a percent.
Next up, Steel cutting its price target
in Home Depot to [music] $350, citing
third quarter results that point to a
weaker underlying category not captured
by expectations, down about a half a
percent. And finally, JP Morgan raising
its price target and Ulta Beauty to $66.
The firm believing Ulta optimized
promotions during the third quarter. It
expects upward estimate revisions after
its earnings print. [music]
Do they really have good promotions?
Emory, do you shop at Ulta? You don't
shop at Ulta?
>> No, I do. I shop at Ulta. Yeah, why not?
I like I do a mix of Sephora and Ulta
Beauty, but Ulta Beauty has been on an
absolute tear with the younger
generation that does all these skincare
regimes for their social media, and you
have to go out and replenish. So, I
might go check out Ulta Beauty today for
Cyber Monday.
>> There you go. All right, there's your
pitch.
>> The emails are coming in hot.
>> Well, now they're not gonna they're not
going to stop after that. Sticking with
retail, US shoppers demonstrating their
resilience, including Amory to kick off
the holiday season as Black Friday sales
increase to over 4%. Leo Feller is the
chief economist at Numerator, which
tracks consumer and economic data. He
writes, "We keep seeing retail spending
increasing even for lower income
consumers. So consumers saying they'll
cut back doesn't necessarily mean
they'll cut back. Watch what they do,
not what they say. Leah joins us now.
Leo, can you start there and talk about
what you're seeing so far in this
shopping season?
>> Yeah, thanks so much for having me. So
it's definitely the case that consumers
say that they are very pessimistic about
current economic conditions. Uh and yet
this entire year we've really seen uh
consumers from lower end to higher uh
income consumers uh increasing the
amount that they are spending. Uh and
this just suggests that consumers are
being very resilient. Uh although we are
seeing them being very selective and so
uh they're saying they're going to try
to take advantage more of promotions,
more of Black Friday sales. And this
might mean that we saw some of this
increase that you saw right now in Black
Friday sales. Uh is consumers pulling
forward some of their holiday spending
to take advantage of sales and
promotions.
>> Leo, Lisa mentioned it earlier on the
program. It's a record amount of
spending. 11.8 billion online on Friday
alone. 9.1% jump from last year
according to Adobe Analytics. But when
you start to include inflation in that
number, is it basically flat where we
were in 2024?
>> Yeah, that's the right way to think
about it. I I mean, even in
inflationadjusted terms, the amount that
people are buying has gone up, but uh
the spend has gone up a lot more simply
because we're seeing higher consumer
prices. So with some work that I did at
colleagues at the Federal Reserve, we
saw that for products coming in from
China, uh they are about 10% more
expensive now than they were a year ago.
So things like apparel, toys, uh homeg
goods, uh are all going to be more
expensive this year than last year. And
that means that consumers are, you know,
spending more but not necessarily buying
getting that much more. when you see the
consumer go out and spend in this
K-shaped economy, where's the higherend
spending and where's the lower-end
spending?
>> Ah, this is a great question. So, we've
seen kind of this bifurcation where uh
club stores like Costco are doing
extremely well with higher income
consumers. Uh, and then you have your TJ
Maxxes, your uh dollar stores, your
Aldi's uh doing a lot better with lower
income consumers. And so people really
are trying to find better value, but
that might mean buying in larger
quantities, buying in bulk at a Costco
or just getting lower prices, more uh
private label items uh at uh stores like
Aldi.
>> What's your sense, Leo, of whether
people are being more choiceful? I know
that John, who is off this month, has
talked about his dislike of that word,
but this idea that people are being more
deliberate about going out and shopping
during times of promotion and looking
for those deals and that indicates
really some discretion on the part of
consumers, not necessarily, you know, no
holds barred this idea of going out and
spend the bank.
>> Oh, absolutely. This is very different
than 2022 when consumers were flushed
with cash. uh coming out of the
pandemic, they had uh you know record
levels of savings. They were spending
down that savings. We had gotten
stimulus checks. That was a consumer
that was not being choiceful, right?
People were upgrading uh towards
brandame items, willing to splurge. Uh
this time around, we really are seeing
consumers being more selective both in
terms of the retailers where they are
shopping uh in terms of taking advantage
of sales and promotions. And this is why
when we look at Black Friday sales, we
have to be careful about what signal
that gives about how the economy is
doing overall. Because if people are
purposely trying to take advantage of
sales and promotions, that might mean
that they're going to be spending less
at other parts of this holiday season
and overall not really increasing their
spending all that much. Right? This is
the kind of selectivity uh that we have
to be watchful for because consumers
that are are watching a buck are the
ones that are going to be trying to make
sure that they're taking the the best
advantage possible of all these you know
black Friday cyber Monday type sales
>> which really goes to the conundrum right
now not only for the Federal Reserve but
for markets and you said this at the
beginning or the comments that you said
that you know essentially watch what
they do not what they say they're saying
they feel bad but they keep spending. Is
it possible for pe for both to be true
for people to feel bad and for them to
be cutting back but continuing to spend
anyway at least in overall numbers?
What's the read through for the Federal
Reserve for the forward look of the
economy?
>> Well, overall the suggested the economy
is still doing okay. The the labor
market at 4.4% unemployment. Um that's a
historically, you know, not a bad level.
Uh, and so, you know, the the Federal
Reserve is this is in this this
conundrum where, you know, the the labor
market is weakening, but it's still
doing okay. Inflation has been stuck at
around 3%. Uh, and we're actually seeing
inflation ticking up in core consumer
goods. Uh, this is these are uh products
that are normally deflationary uh or
disinflationary. Um and so this just
means that the Fed is really stuck in
its difficult position uh where they are
trying to perhaps stimulate the labor
market a little bit more uh but in a
situation where inflation remains
remains high. Uh so I expect a lot of
dissent at this upcoming Federal Reserve
meeting given this this very difficult
situation they're in.
>> The market has the Fed cutting interest
rates they more than 100% they believe
that they're going to cut and you think
there's going to be dissense. Do you
think that maybe this next week's
meeting is a pause from the Federal
Reserve?
>> You know, I I think there was so much
Fed speak uh coming into this Federal
Reserve meeting uh where roughly half
the the members on the FOMC were saying,
you know, look, maybe we just wait for
more data. We haven't gotten a lot of uh
good data given the government shutdown
uh to be able to make a firm decision at
this point in time. Uh and at the same
time, we do have this labor market
weakness. I I really do think this
should be uh a mixed decision right now
and they might er on the side of
cutting. Um but you know we have another
meeting coming up in January so it
wouldn't be uh you know that
inconceivable that might they might just
skip a cut this meeting wait for more
data and then make a decision in January
about how to proceed.
>> Leo Fellow of numerator thank you so
much. Maybe the good news is that we
don't have any more Fed speak at least
not official Fed speak although Jay
Powell is speaking later today at an
event memorial event over in Stanford.
You brought up a good point though and
we talked about this before the show. He
will there will be Q&A likely someone is
going to ask a question about the
meeting next week and yes they are in a
blackout period but maybe there's a wink
wink nod not a sway.
>> Oh yeah body language. We're going to be
we're going to be analyzing the body
language in the abs.
Yeah. We're going to be looking at
actually the data that does come out
albeit not maybe the uh the gold
standard. Still some information coming
out from the consumer coming up. We'll
parse through that with Abigail Wad of
UBS looking ahead to uh some of those
trickles from what the consumer is
feeling and doing. Plus, yara Andrew
with your morning movers. Mag 7 futures
[music] lower to kick off the final
trading month of 2025 led lower by the
Magnificent 7. from New York. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
We are starting the beginning of the
last month of the year with a little bit
of a softer tone pretty much across the
board. A feeling that maybe this can't
last. Although there are people hoping
for that Santa Claus rally down about
7/10 on the S&P looking at 10-year
yields that actually are up almost four
basis points now 4.05%. [music]
What you are seeing on the euro is a bit
of strength. Dollar weakness 116 uh just
uh the euro climbing [music] by about
4/10en of a percent and crude higher.
Watch this space given the fact that
OPEC plus is putting a pause on some of
the output increases that they had been
engaging with uh to end the year. One
hour away from the cash open. And here
are your morning [music] movers with the
onihyra.
>> Hi Lisa. It is the tech sector dragging
us lower with the mag 7 all in the red
this morning [music] as as investors
continue to question the investments
surrounding AI and whether they will get
a return. It's a concern that Deutsche
Bank flagged in a note this morning
remains prominent with the MAG 7 losing
ground in November for the first time
since March. Nvidia, I will also note
just announced it invested $2 billion in
Synopsis stock. This is a company part
of the chip supply chain. So just
raising questions over the circular
nature of these investments. Meanwhile,
we are seeing Bareric Mining shares
rising 3.8% on news that it is exploring
an IPO of its North American gold
assets. A lot has been happening with
this company because amid
record-breaking gold prices, it was not
able to capitalize due to cost overruns
and operational issues. So Elliot
Management stepped in back in November
and it has a new co also shaking [music]
things up. And we end on Airbus shares
still in the red though pairing its
losses down 5.3% over in Europe after it
confirmed an earlier report that it
found a quality issue [music] on some
fuselage panels on its A320 jets. This
just compounds [music] issues over its
most popular aircraft and just days ago
it flagged a software [music] glitch on
about 6,000 of those jets. And this is
all coming as Airbus [music] rushes to
meet uh ambitious targets for this year.
Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Yhierra, turning to
the economy, we're not getting non-farm
payrolls Friday. We would be getting a
whole slew of data that we're not
getting because of the backlog from the
government shutdown. We are however
getting ISM manufacturing, ISM services,
ADP employment, and of course that core
PCE data from September on Friday.
Bloomberg's Ed Curran joins us now. And
uh what are we looking for and why is
this week particularly important even
though we don't get that sort of gold
standard non-farm payrolls report?
>> As you say mostly second tier data but
Lisa today we do get ISM manufacturing
numbers at least. It's expected to tip
up tip uh upwards to around 49 which is
a slight improvement but if that's the
case it's still in contractionary
territory and will mean that it's the
ninth month of contractionary territory
for that reading on the manufacturing
sector. We know there's been a lot of
pressure there from the uncertainty
around tariffs and on trade policy, but
also there will be a lot of focus on
what those numbers today tell us about
labor demand and broader demand for the
manufacturing sector. So, uh, several
clues may come out of that. I think the
bigger piece for this week though, as
you say, will be the core PCE reading on
Friday. This is the Fed's preferred
gauge of inflation. It's expected to
tick up 0.2%
uh on month uh which would mean it's
around 3% for the year. that would
suggest that inflation is at least
stable even though of course it remains
sticky and above the Fed's inflation
target. But if you get a higher reading
than that of course it might complicate
further the the already complicated Fed
debate for next week. It's quite dated
data of course it's from September but
it's it's good as we have for uh it's
all we have for now I should say. So
that's what I was going to say and does
it matter at all because ultimately it's
so dated and there's a real question
around the integrity, the relevance
given the fact that we're in December
right now that will it really factor in
at all to the potential uh Fed rate cut
next week?
It
>> all very valid questions. It is they are
so dated these numbers at this age,
Lisa. We know the economy continues to
evolve in real time, but it is literally
all we have because we're not going to
get h either any more jobs or employment
data uh from the BLS before the Fed
meeting or of course the CPI data before
the Fed meeting next week. So, I think
we're probably at a space now with the
Fed officials whereby they've probably
made up their mind and where they're at.
You either are more worried about the
labor market and what's happening there
and what potentially might be happening
in the months ahead or you remain more
worried about inflation. It's hard to
think those views will change
dramatically over the coming week. It's
clearly going to be a close decision by
the Fed. All we can go on are were those
most recent comments before blackout,
which we're leaning towards something of
a dovish outcome, but by all accounts,
it's clearly going to be a very live
meeting.
>> Andy Curran, thank you so much for being
with us. Right now, there is a 99%
chance of a Fed rate cut next week. It
has gone down from 102% earlier this
morning based on Fed funds futures, but
up from some 25% based just a couple of
weeks ago. So, clearly very much the
base case. And Enda is talking about the
fact that though it's going to be a live
meeting and Leo was talking about
earlier in the hour that there's going
to be those individuals that descent at
this meeting. So maybe the market is
getting ahead of its skis on what we
think the Federal Reserve is going to
do.
>> Well, let's get the view from UBS.
Abigail Wad of UBS writing this. We
still expect a cut in December. We
expect there is very vocal disagreement
to the point that we were just making,
but we also expect a large majority of
the committee will support the decision.
Abigail joins us now. Abigail, I love
that we've gone from a data dependent
Fed to a data non-existent Fed. The idea
that we don't even have the inputs. What
are you watching to really gauge the
vocal disagreement and the outcome of
next week's meeting?
>> Yeah. So, look, I mean, it's it's
totally fair to say we don't have the
official statistics from the BLS. We we
should have got that non-farm payrolls
report this Friday. We won't be getting
that. And the data that we think, you
know, would be important for that
decision will actually be released week
after. Right December 16th, we should
get the October, November data from the
BLS. Now we do have other data though
you know the committee can see that
you've seen initial claims running
around a similar rate to before the the
kind of government shutdown. You can see
that uh when we look across a range of
other indicators you you're seeing a
labor market that doesn't necessarily
look like it's significantly improved
since they had those kind of official
numbers. And I think um I think for the
committee the there's a case of risk
management here. if you don't have uh if
you don't have those official
statistics, it feels like the risk is
skewed towards, you know, removing that
excess restrictiveness now in in the in
the case of the likelihood that you
potentially do see weaker numbers the
week after, right? So, I think that's
the the decision in front of the
committee as they go into the meeting.
>> Abigail, then it basically begs the
question, how much harder is 2026 if
they do end up cutting next week?
>> So, I think 2026 we'll continue to see
this tension for the FOMC. I think
you're going to continue to see this
issue of inflation pushing away from
their target but simultaneously a
relatively soft labor market and I think
that ultimately means that you see the
FOMC potentially leaning on that kind of
risk management. How do we remove excess
restrictiveness? So I mean in our
expectations we think they will cut at
the meeting next week and our sense is
that they could cut again in January but
then I think that tension potentially
becomes a little bit more challenging
for them. Our sense would be that you
could see a little bit of an improvement
in the labor market as you go into the
second quarter of next year and
alongside that we think you should be
seeing more tariff related price pass
through and that combination we think
leaves them on hold for a little while
through through
>> even with a chair hassid at the helm. I
think it's an important point to note.
Obviously, there's a lot there's
potential for personnel change next
year. Um, a new Fed chair. Um, our sense
is that you could see potentially
another cut in September. If I think
about our month, our kind of meeting by
meeting profile, we think that by that
September meeting, you'll have a new Fed
chair in uh a bit of a shift in the
committee. And and alongside that, we
think that you potentially see them
removing a little bit more
restrictiveness from that policy rate.
But ultimately, you know, we think that
they get down to three three and a
quarter by the end of 2026. We're not
necessarily expecting that they deliver
a significant easing in policy at this
junction. But I do think that, you know,
some of the the kind of changes in
personnel and and the sense that you'll
be getting past the peak inflation
impulse from tariffs. I think that
potentially leads to leaning towards a
kind of lower federal funds rate in
terms of the distribution. Let's say I'm
not getting any of the gold standard
data and I'm saying, you know what, I'm
going to look for my own. Not only are
we gonna get ADP, which I know we've
gotten very excited about, and ISM
manufacturing and services, but I can go
to the shopping mall parking lots and
see how many people are there. I can see
the numbers from Adobe that came out in
a positive way versus last year in terms
of the total increase and say actually
the consumer is doing pretty well. How
valid is it to sort of look at anecdotes
based on the corporate world and
spending habits during peak promotional
ser uh seasons and sort of extrapolate
out a trend about the overall US
economy?
>> Yeah. So I think I think you're right to
think about the the period you're in and
whether that's I guess a typical period
for for kind of the level of spending
that you would see in the the economy,
right? I think we are in a period where
you tend to see kind of that seasonal
shopping coming out and you potentially
see support from discounting right so I
think when we think about the the kind
of consumer and the look forward from
the patterns we see around holiday
spending season I think it does tell us
something about the willingness of
consumers to spend but it doesn't
necessarily mean that we would expect
that that is a trend that can be persist
and kind of kind of pulled forward I
think you know when we think about the
end of the year and into early next year
or when we get past this holiday
spending season our sense would that you
see more of a kind of inflation hit for
consumers. And I think when you start to
see that, we could see a little bit more
retrenchment, we think, from the
consumer through through this period. I
just think about how every time I go
upstate and I see the car lots being
full in terms of car dealerships, I
think, uhoh, bad economy, bad economic
season. Or if I see fewer of them, I
think, wow, okay, they're flying off the
shelves. Henry was talking about how she
puts in her shopping cart a number of
things, doesn't buy them, and then she
gets the promotional email saying, "Why
not continue continue to uh shop for
these items?" I wonder if things like
that are actually signals about what the
uh what the different retailers are
doing in order to juice sales, right? I
mean, is this signal or is that noise?
>> I mean, I think it's a sign that the
consumer is becoming more uh kind of
selective and careful in terms of where
they're choosing to spend. I think
that's something that we we've been
seeing kind of actually through most of
the year. You know, I think you've seen
a consumer that is um kind of choosing
very carefully when they choose to come
out and spend. This is something that
our analysts have talked about at UBS,
the the kind of retail analysts have
referenced this idea of coming out for
holidays but not necessarily maintaining
that pace of spending. And I think
that's um I think that's the the kind of
key point here is I think when we look
at the consumer I think you can see that
there is a group of consumers who are
still flush with cash and and kind of
sitting on relatively healthy balance
sheets, but I think you know there is an
increasing portion of the consumer that
looks like they're under pressure and
that pressure we think could potentially
increase you know as we go through the
end of the year and into next year. So I
I do think this we're in this period
potentially of adjustment for the
consumer, but when we get into next
year, you know, that big beautiful bill
act fiscal stimulus we think could
potentially help around tax season. So
we're not we're not outright pessimistic
here. You know, I do think there is some
optimism to come um as we go into next
year though.
>> Abigail Watt, thank you so much for
being with us. Abigail Watt of UBS. I do
wonder Emory this idea of that shopping
cart and I know that that was just one
anecdote, but we're all seeing that
right this morning already.
>> I mean how much? but also they'll track
your your your your moves. And I wonder,
is this AI at work? Right? Are these
sort of like little algorithmic spies
out there that are looking for you?
>> True. It's something that could be done
now when you online shop that you just
can't track if you are brick and motor
waiting for individuals to come in.
You're not going to follow them around
the store and see them pick something up
and put it down. But you can track them
all day long and potentially remind them
you only have 24 hours, 12 hours, 6
hours, and you're like, "Yeah, I do kind
of need that. Maybe I do buy it now."
Although, there are those people that do
follow you around at the stores. Are you
sure you don't need any help? And then
you sort of wonder, well, I can't ignore
them the same I can ignore an email. You
have to sort of engage. Anyway, I'm
digressing right now. Let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is your Bloomberg brief
with Vonnie Quinn. Vonnie, Lisa, thank
you. [music] US special envoy Steve
Witkov is heading to Moscow as US and
Ukrainian negotiators say they had
productive [music] discussions about a
framework for a peace deal. The two
sides discussed potential parameters for
a ceasefire as they poured over a
19-point proposal that emerged in Geneva
last weekend.
Airbus facing new issues affecting
fuselage panels of several dozen A320
family aircraft. The suspected
production flaw is delaying some
deliveries. This after the company was
close to completing repairs on thousands
of the same jets following flight
control software issues linked to solar
flares.
Disney's Zuptopia 2 won the holiday
weekend box office. The movie brought in
$156 million at the US and Canadian box
office over the Thanksgiving [music]
weekend. The film achieved the highest
global opening for any animated picture
in Disney's history with a whole of $556
million worldwide. [music] And that is
your Bloomberg brief. Lisa, thank you so
much Vonnie. Up next, setting you up for
the day ahead. Plus, Oxana Arnoff of JP
Morgan asset management as President
Donald Trump says he has made his
decision on the [music] next bet chair.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
To me, the underlying question is uh
what the market expect the Fed to do
versus what the Fed should do. And and
this is important coming into next year.
What's going to happen to the economy?
What's going to happen to inflation
expectations? Because to be honest,
there is zero chance that we're going to
have inflation core inflation core PC
coming close to the target before the
end of next [music] year.
>> That was Cladio of Bank of America
talking about yes, the Fed may cut rates
next week, but don't look for them to
aggressive aggressively cut in the
following year and inflation is not
going to hit those targets. This morning
you're seeing uh equities futures just a
bit softer to start the last week, the
last month of the year. What we are
seeing is the NASDAQ underperforming
down 9/10en of a percent following the
loss last month. What we are seeing in
the bond space is [music] yes, maybe the
Fed will cut rates next week and maybe
next year. There will be an additional
couple of rate cuts. Nonetheless, that
yield curve steepening has reasserted
itself. So two-year yields [music] up
two basis points, 3.5% on the long end.
30-year yields up now six basis [music]
points to 4.72%
raising a question about just what this
means going forward about inflation
expectations as well as the Fed path
forward. Counting down to the opening
bell. Here's a trading diary for the
week ahead. At 10 a.m. Eastern, we get
ISM manufacturing data. At 4 p.m.,
President Trump citing congressional
bills. And at 8:00 p.m., it is the
blackout period, but Fed Chair Jay
Powell is speaking at a memorial event.
Tuesday, earnings from Crowdstrike.
Wednesday, ISM services. And on Friday,
core PCE, which sounds great, but it's
for September, so don't get too excited.
Turning back to the Federal Reserve,
President Donald Trump saying he's
decided on his pick to replace Chair Jay
Powell. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg that Trump's chief economic
adviser Kevin Hasset is the front
runner. Axana Arnov of JP Morgan Asset
Management joins us now. Axana,
wonderful to see you. Thank you so much
for being here.
>> Great being here as always.
>> So, I'd love to start there. this idea
that the Fed is likely to cut next week.
That is currently what's being fully
priced into markets. And there's a sense
that the economy is unclear that there
could be actually a reaceleration
earlier this earlier next year. How much
do you think that those inflation
expectations are underpriced right now
akin to what we heard earlier from
Cladio?
>> Can I just make a parallel between the
Fed and that overly eager store
associate following you around the
department store incessantly offering
help even though their actions are just
like confusing you and and and I think
that's what the Fed has done. are trying
to be overly transparent. There's a lot
of dissent within the Fed is what we're
seeing. And we also know the Fed has had
a history of just frankly not being
agile enough, right? Staying um low too
long. Now they don't have the data. So
frankly, you know, their actions as the
kids say these days are sus. And when we
look at and when we look at the lack of
data and the data that we have had over
the past you know couple weeks here and
there it has been you know on balance at
least okay right initial jobless claims
came in high uh lowest this year the
consumer spending even though consumer
confidence seems to be declining
consumer spending seems to be okay. So
what problem are we really trying to
solve with this Fed cut? Because if the
problem we're trying to solve is the one
that's most talked about, which is
affordability, that certainly hasn't
happened since the Fed began this
cutting cycle, because both long rates
and mortgage rates are actually higher
today than they were when the Fed began
this cutting cycle in September of 2024.
So, I don't really see any reason for
them to not stand pat here and just kind
of see how the data develops. But, of
course, they are going to cut because of
all of this turmoil that they're in.
They're under a lot of pressure
politically and otherwise. And I think
this cut is going to happen and we'll
see whether it's the right one. I think
the data will prove them wrong as we
head into 2026.
>> If they were to just stand pat and wait,
wait for the data to come in and then
make a decision basically a pause with
where the market is lining up for a
decision. What is it 99% now? Lisa's
been tracking all morning.
>> So widely as well,
>> right? But right now with the market
basically saying that they are
definitely going to cut. What kind of
reaction would we see if they decided we
were going to pause, the market would
not like it. I mean equities wouldn't
like it, bonds wouldn't like it in the
short term, but in the long term perhaps
it would give the Fed some more
credibility which I think it is sorely
lacking frankly. Um and it would provide
a real um kind of a north star that look
the Fed is data driven and we don't have
really decisive data and so based on
that and the data that they do have the
little bit that they do have um they're
choosing to kind of abstain here.
>> When you say the Fed is lacking
credibility is it because basically they
said they were going to get inflation
down and they accepted 3%.
>> Well yes I mean that's part of it
certainly. um they are essentially
trying to now um create some sort of a a
dampener for their fiscal dominance that
you know we are living through the age
of fiscal dominance and so feds not just
credibility but their really um uh
meaningfulness impactfulness is just
less and again we're seeing that in the
fact that no matter what they do at the
front end the long end which determines
everything right in terms of costs is
just not budging and so I I think it's
really the fiscal side of the house that
has to get its game in order. And on
that side, of course, everyone knows
what they have to do. They just don't
know how to get elected after they do
it. So, and that's the story is old as
time. So, the Fed is in a really tough
place here. And I think the new incoming
chair has not only, you know, the
policy, the dual mandate, but also the
um necessity to kind of rethink perhaps
even Fed modeling and how do they think
about making these decisions. So that
there really is transparency and not
just, you know, this Fed member said
this and so the market odds way this way
and then someone else says something
else and the market odds go the other
way.
>> So somebody could take a look at all
this and say, well, I'd rather just
invest in Apple or I'd rather just
invest in Microsoft or maybe just open
AI, right? So there's this question of
how much we're looking at the credit
space as a haven from some of these
discussions. You describe credit as
still standing in the kitchen with the
lights off. Can you please explain what
that means?
not my quote, but I do like it because I
think that um the spattering of
headlines that we've seen related to,
you know, defaults or write downs, I
think that's just the tip of the
iceberg. I think there's a lot of um
news that are going to continue to
break, which is not to say there's not a
lot of fantastic private credit deals
that are out there that are probably
originated earlier on, but particularly
the deals from 2122 uh perhaps not the
most um robust vintage. And also you've
now had this trend of you know private
wealth space uh adopting a lot of these
and so the question becomes how much
investment tourism as I like to call it
is there how much how well is the due
diligence that's being done on these and
so u I think there's going to be a lot
more news when you look at defaults on
the public side on you know to the
extent that we have any visibility into
the private side they are rising but
also distressed activity is picking up
every year you know so far this year
you've had $50 billion worth of distress
best activity and it's higher every year
for the past several years. What does
that mean? That means that this entire
private credit ecosystem has created a
way for companies that cannot refinance
themselves to be taken out via private
credit loan. Um paying kind activity is
rising as well. So when you add all
those up, you actually have a credit
backdrop that's not nearly as robust as
your sort of official default rate
suggests. And one last point I'll make
on that, you know, BDC's which are the
daily valued vehicles consisting of
private loans which are perhaps our, you
know, one of the few ways for us to
gauge what's happening on the private
loan side which is so opaque. They've
completely disconnected from the high
yield and the leverage loan markets
which are, you know, presumably the
building blocks in terms of credit
quality um and are off you know double
digits um versus high yield markets that
have done well so far this year. So, the
whole idea of still standing in the
kitchen with the lights off, you don't
know what kind of uh creepy crawies are
going around until you turn the lights
on. It's sort of the akin to Warren
Buffett with the tide rolling out and
you can see who's swimming naked. And I
just wonder, well, how do you arrange
your your portfolio with this? If you
see potential downside risk for
treasuries, you see potential downside
risk for credit and we're heading into a
year where people are uh feeling
uncertain about the AI story. I mean,
what what are you overweight? So, we
very much like protection on credit
here. Not because we see sort of any
kind of imminent risk, but we do know
that it's not a question of if, it's a
question of when. Right? I always say
that everyone is obsessed with ident
identifying the top of the equity
market, which is pretty much impossible
to do because equities move on
sentiment. And bonds move on math. And
when you look at investment grade
spreads and see that they have been
wider 95% of the time in history or 97%
of the time in history. When you look at
high yield spreads and they've been
wider 95% time um throughout their 50 45
year history. You know this is the top
and it's just a question of question of
when not if. So we do like credit
protection here something that you know
is extra incredibly inexpensive because
most people are not thinking about it.
Most people are thinking about how do I
maximize yield here? how do I, you know,
get a little bit more yield into my
portfolio, which, you know, several
years ago getting what we're getting at
the front end of the curve, which is
still more than what you're getting at
the long end of the curve was fantastic.
So, we are staying defensive, not
because we're not constructive on the
economy, because we are. Um, and we do
think the economy will prove to be more
resilient than is currently being priced
in, but u we realize that that's
probably not a great thing for duration
or interest rate risk. Um, and also
credit has some real issues underneath
and we [music] want to be protected to
take advantage of that.
>> Oxana, wonderful to see you. Thank you
so much for being here. Oxana Arinov of
JP Morgan Asset Management. Coming up
tomorrow, Cameron Dawson of Newi, New
Edge Wealth, Apollo Global Management
President Jim Zelter, Kitty Kaminsky of
Alpha [music] Simplex, and Lindseay PZA
of Stifel. This was Bloomberg
surveillance, the first day of the last
month of the year. Good morning.